content/en/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- bgrant0607
- mikedanese
title: Install and Set Up kubectl
content_template: templates/task
weight: 10
card:
  name: tasks
  weight: 20
  title: Install kubectl
---

{{% capture overview %}}
The Kubernetes command-line tool, [kubectl](/docs/user-guide/kubectl/), allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. You can use kubectl to deploy applications, inspect and manage cluster resources, and view logs. For a complete list of kubectl operations, see [Overview of kubectl](/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/).
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}
You must use a kubectl version that is within one minor version difference of your cluster. For example, a v1.2 client should work with v1.1, v1.2, and v1.3 master. Using the latest version of kubectl helps avoid unforeseen issues.
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

## Install kubectl on Linux

### Install kubectl binary with curl on Linux

1. Download the latest release with the command:

    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
    ```

    To download a specific version, replace the `$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)` portion of the command with the specific version.

    For example, to download version {{< param "fullversion" >}} on Linux, type:
    
    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
    ```

2. Make the kubectl binary executable.

    ```
    chmod +x ./kubectl
    ```

3. Move the binary in to your PATH.

    ```
    sudo mv ./kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
    ```
4. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install using native package management

{{< tabs name="kubectl_install" >}}
{{< tab name="Ubuntu, Debian or HypriotOS" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="CentOS, RHEL or Fedora" codelang="bash" >}}cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF
yum install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}


### Install with snap

If you are on Ubuntu or another Linux distribution that support [snap](https://snapcraft.io/docs/core/install) package manager, kubectl is available as a [snap](https://snapcraft.io/) application.

1. Switch to the snap user and run the installation command:

    ```
    sudo snap install kubectl --classic
    ```

2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

## Install kubectl on macOS

### Install kubectl binary with curl on macOS

1. Download the latest release:

    ```		 
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/darwin/amd64/kubectl
    ```

    To download a specific version, replace the `$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)` portion of the command with the specific version.

    For example, to download version {{< param "fullversion" >}} on macOS, type:
		  
    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/darwin/amd64/kubectl
    ```

2. Make the kubectl binary executable.

    ```
    chmod +x ./kubectl
    ```

3. Move the binary in to your PATH.

    ```
    sudo mv ./kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
    ```
4. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install with Homebrew on macOS

If you are on macOS and using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) package manager, you can install kubectl with Homebrew.

1. Run the installation command:

    ```
    brew install kubernetes-cli
    ```

2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install with Macports on macOS

If you are on macOS and using [Macports](https://macports.org/) package manager, you can install kubectl with Macports.

1. Run the installation command:

    ```
    sudo port selfupdate
    sudo port install kubectl
    ```
    
2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

## Install kubectl on Windows

### Install kubectl binary with curl on Windows

1. Download the latest release {{< param "fullversion" >}} from [this link](https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/windows/amd64/kubectl.exe).

    Or if you have `curl` installed, use this command:

    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/windows/amd64/kubectl.exe
    ```

    To find out the latest stable version (for example, for scripting), take a look at [https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt](https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt).

2. Add the binary in to your PATH.
3. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install with Powershell from PSGallery

If you are on Windows and using [Powershell Gallery](https://www.powershellgallery.com/) package manager, you can install and update kubectl with Powershell.

1. Run the installation commands (making sure to specify a `DownloadLocation`):

    ```
    Install-Script -Name install-kubectl -Scope CurrentUser -Force
    install-kubectl.ps1 [-DownloadLocation <path>]
    ```
    
    {{< note >}}If you do not specify a `DownloadLocation`, `kubectl` will be installed in the user's temp Directory.{{< /note >}}
    
    The installer creates `$HOME/.kube` and instructs it to create a config file

2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

    {{< note >}}Updating the installation is performed by rerunning the two commands listed in step 1.{{< /note >}}

### Install on Windows using Chocolatey or Scoop

To install kubectl on Windows you can use either [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org) package manager or [Scoop](https://scoop.sh) command-line installer.
{{< tabs name="kubectl_win_install" >}}
{{% tab name="choco" %}}

    choco install kubernetes-cli

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="scoop" %}}

    scoop install kubectl

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

3. Navigate to your home directory:

    ```
    cd %USERPROFILE%
    ```
4. Create the `.kube` directory:

    ```
    mkdir .kube
    ```

5. Change to the `.kube` directory you just created:

    ```
    cd .kube
    ```

6. Configure kubectl to use a remote Kubernetes cluster:

    ```
    New-Item config -type file
    ```
    
    {{< note >}}Edit the config file with a text editor of your choice, such as Notepad.{{< /note >}}

## Download as part of the Google Cloud SDK

You can install kubectl as part of the Google Cloud SDK.

1. Install the [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/).
2. Run the `kubectl` installation command:

    ```
    gcloud components install kubectl
    ```
    
3. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

## Verifying kubectl configuration 

In order for kubectl to find and access a Kubernetes cluster, it needs a [kubeconfig file](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/), which is created automatically when you create a cluster using `kube-up.sh` or successfully deploy a Minikube cluster. By default, kubectl configuration is located at `~/.kube/config`.

Check that kubectl is properly configured by getting the cluster state:

```shell
kubectl cluster-info
```
If you see a URL response, kubectl is correctly configured to access your cluster.

If you see a message similar to the following, kubectl is not configured correctly or is not able to connect to a Kubernetes cluster.

```shell
The connection to the server <server-name:port> was refused - did you specify the right host or port?
```

For example, if you are intending to run a Kubernetes cluster on your laptop (locally), you will need a tool like Minikube to be installed first and then re-run the commands stated above.

If kubectl cluster-info returns the url response but you can't access your cluster, to check whether it is configured properly, use:

```shell
kubectl cluster-info dump
```

## Optional kubectl configurations

### Enabling shell autocompletion

kubectl provides autocompletion support for Bash and Zsh, which can save you a lot of typing.

Below are the procedures to set up autocompletion for Bash (including the difference between Linux and macOS) and Zsh.

{{< tabs name="kubectl_autocompletion" >}}

{{% tab name="Bash on Linux" %}}

### Introduction

The kubectl completion script for Bash can be generated with the command `kubectl completion bash`. Sourcing the completion script in your shell enables kubectl autocompletion.

However, the completion script depends on [**bash-completion**](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion), which means that you have to install this software first (you can test if you have bash-completion already installed by running `type _init_completion`).

### Install bash-completion

bash-completion is provided by many package managers (see [here](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion#installation)). You can install it with `apt-get install bash-completion` or `yum install bash-completion`, etc.

The above commands create `/usr/share/bash-completion/bash_completion`, which is the main script of bash-completion. Depending on your package manager, you have to manually source this file in your `~/.bashrc` file.

To find out, reload your shell and run `type _init_completion`. If the command succeeds, you're already set, otherwise add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file:

```shell
source /usr/share/bash-completion/bash_completion
```

Reload your shell and verify that bash-completion is correctly installed by typing `type _init_completion`.

### Enable kubectl autocompletion

You now need to ensure that the kubectl completion script gets sourced in all your shell sessions. There are two ways in which you can do this:

- Source the completion script in your `~/.bashrc` file:

    ```shell
    echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >>~/.bashrc
    ```

- Add the completion script to the `/etc/bash_completion.d` directory:

    ```shell
    kubectl completion bash >/etc/bash_completion.d/kubectl
    ```

{{< note >}}
bash-completion sources all completion scripts in `/etc/bash_completion.d`.
{{< /note >}}

Both approaches are equivalent. After reloading your shell, kubectl autocompletion should be working.

{{% /tab %}}


{{% tab name="Bash on macOS" %}}


### Introduction

The kubectl completion script for Bash can be generated with `kubectl completion bash`. Sourcing this script in your shell enables kubectl completion.

However, the kubectl completion script depends on [**bash-completion**](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion) which you thus have to previously install.

{{< warning>}}
there are two versions of bash-completion, v1 and v2. V1 is for Bash 3.2 (which is the default on macOS), and v2 is for Bash 4.1+. The kubectl completion script **doesn't work** correctly with bash-completion v1 and Bash 3.2. It requires **bash-completion v2** and **Bash 4.1+**. Thus, to be able to correctly use kubectl completion on macOS, you have to install and use Bash 4.1+ ([*instructions*](https://itnext.io/upgrading-bash-on-macos-7138bd1066ba)). The following instructions assume that you use Bash 4.1+ (that is, any Bash version of 4.1 or newer).
{{< /warning >}}


### Install bash-completion

{{< note >}}
As mentioned, these instructions assume you use Bash 4.1+, which means you will install bash-completion v2 (in contrast to Bash 3.2 and bash-completion v1, in which case kubectl completion won't work).
{{< /note >}}

You can test if you have bash-completion v2 already installed with `type _init_completion`. If not, you can install it with Homebrew:

```shell
brew install bash-completion@2
```

As stated in the output of this command, add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file:

```shell
export BASH_COMPLETION_COMPAT_DIR="/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d"
[[ -r "/usr/local/etc/profile.d/bash_completion.sh" ]] && . "/usr/local/etc/profile.d/bash_completion.sh"
```

Reload your shell and verify that bash-completion v2 is correctly installed with `type _init_completion`.

### Enable kubectl autocompletion

You now have to ensure that the kubectl completion script gets sourced in all your shell sessions. There are multiple ways to achieve this:

- Source the completion script in your `~/.bashrc` file:

    ```shell
    echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >>~/.bashrc

    ```

- Add the completion script to the `/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d` directory:

    ```shell
    kubectl completion bash >/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/kubectl
    ```

- If you installed kubectl with Homebrew (as explained [above](#install-with-homebrew-on-macos)), then the kubectl completion script should already be in `/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/kubectl`. In that case, you don't need to do anything.

{{< note >}}
the Homebrew installation of bash-completion v2 sources all the files in the `BASH_COMPLETION_COMPAT_DIR` directory, that's why the latter two methods work.
{{< /note >}}

In any case, after reloading your shell, kubectl completion should be working.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Zsh" %}}

The kubectl completion script for Zsh can be generated with the command `kubectl completion zsh`. Sourcing the completion script in your shell enables kubectl autocompletion.

To do so in all your shell sessions, add the following to your `~/.zshrc` file:

```shell
source <(kubectl completion zsh)
```

After reloading your shell, kubectl autocompletion should be working.

If you get an error like `complete:13: command not found: compdef`, then add the following to the beginning of your `~/.zshrc` file:

```shell
autoload -Uz compinit
compinit
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}
* [Install Minikube](/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/)
* See the [getting started guides](/docs/setup/) for more about creating clusters. 
* [Learn how to launch and expose your application.](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/service-access-application-cluster/)
* If you need access to a cluster you didn't create, see the [Sharing Cluster Access document](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).
* Read the [kubectl reference docs](/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/)
{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

Update install-kubectl.md (#14840)
Add note: Docker for Windows adds its own kubectl to PATH

content/en/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- bgrant0607
- mikedanese
title: Install and Set Up kubectl
content_template: templates/task
weight: 10
card:
  name: tasks
  weight: 20
  title: Install kubectl
---

{{% capture overview %}}
The Kubernetes command-line tool, [kubectl](/docs/user-guide/kubectl/), allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. You can use kubectl to deploy applications, inspect and manage cluster resources, and view logs. For a complete list of kubectl operations, see [Overview of kubectl](/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/).
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}
You must use a kubectl version that is within one minor version difference of your cluster. For example, a v1.2 client should work with v1.1, v1.2, and v1.3 master. Using the latest version of kubectl helps avoid unforeseen issues.
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

## Install kubectl on Linux

### Install kubectl binary with curl on Linux

1. Download the latest release with the command:

    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
    ```

    To download a specific version, replace the `$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)` portion of the command with the specific version.

    For example, to download version {{< param "fullversion" >}} on Linux, type:
    
    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
    ```

2. Make the kubectl binary executable.

    ```
    chmod +x ./kubectl
    ```

3. Move the binary in to your PATH.

    ```
    sudo mv ./kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
    ```
4. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install using native package management

{{< tabs name="kubectl_install" >}}
{{< tab name="Ubuntu, Debian or HypriotOS" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="CentOS, RHEL or Fedora" codelang="bash" >}}cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF
yum install -y kubectl
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}


### Install with snap

If you are on Ubuntu or another Linux distribution that support [snap](https://snapcraft.io/docs/core/install) package manager, kubectl is available as a [snap](https://snapcraft.io/) application.

1. Switch to the snap user and run the installation command:

    ```
    sudo snap install kubectl --classic
    ```

2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

## Install kubectl on macOS

### Install kubectl binary with curl on macOS

1. Download the latest release:

    ```		 
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)/bin/darwin/amd64/kubectl
    ```

    To download a specific version, replace the `$(curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt)` portion of the command with the specific version.

    For example, to download version {{< param "fullversion" >}} on macOS, type:
		  
    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/darwin/amd64/kubectl
    ```

2. Make the kubectl binary executable.

    ```
    chmod +x ./kubectl
    ```

3. Move the binary in to your PATH.

    ```
    sudo mv ./kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
    ```
4. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install with Homebrew on macOS

If you are on macOS and using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) package manager, you can install kubectl with Homebrew.

1. Run the installation command:

    ```
    brew install kubernetes-cli
    ```

2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

### Install with Macports on macOS

If you are on macOS and using [Macports](https://macports.org/) package manager, you can install kubectl with Macports.

1. Run the installation command:

    ```
    sudo port selfupdate
    sudo port install kubectl
    ```
    
2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

## Install kubectl on Windows

### Install kubectl binary with curl on Windows

1. Download the latest release {{< param "fullversion" >}} from [this link](https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/windows/amd64/kubectl.exe).

    Or if you have `curl` installed, use this command:

    ```
    curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/{{< param "fullversion" >}}/bin/windows/amd64/kubectl.exe
    ```

    To find out the latest stable version (for example, for scripting), take a look at [https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt](https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt).

2. Add the binary in to your PATH.
3. Test to ensure the version of `kubectl` is the same as downloaded:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```
{{< note >}}
[Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#kubernetes) adds its own version of `kubectl` to PATH.
If you have installed Docker before, you may need to place your PATH entry before the one added by Docker installer or remove the Docker's `kubectl`.
{{< /note >}}

### Install with Powershell from PSGallery

If you are on Windows and using [Powershell Gallery](https://www.powershellgallery.com/) package manager, you can install and update kubectl with Powershell.

1. Run the installation commands (making sure to specify a `DownloadLocation`):

    ```
    Install-Script -Name install-kubectl -Scope CurrentUser -Force
    install-kubectl.ps1 [-DownloadLocation <path>]
    ```
    
    {{< note >}}If you do not specify a `DownloadLocation`, `kubectl` will be installed in the user's temp Directory.{{< /note >}}
    
    The installer creates `$HOME/.kube` and instructs it to create a config file

2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

    {{< note >}}Updating the installation is performed by rerunning the two commands listed in step 1.{{< /note >}}

### Install on Windows using Chocolatey or Scoop

To install kubectl on Windows you can use either [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org) package manager or [Scoop](https://scoop.sh) command-line installer.
{{< tabs name="kubectl_win_install" >}}
{{% tab name="choco" %}}

    choco install kubernetes-cli

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="scoop" %}}

    scoop install kubectl

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
2. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

3. Navigate to your home directory:

    ```
    cd %USERPROFILE%
    ```
4. Create the `.kube` directory:

    ```
    mkdir .kube
    ```

5. Change to the `.kube` directory you just created:

    ```
    cd .kube
    ```

6. Configure kubectl to use a remote Kubernetes cluster:

    ```
    New-Item config -type file
    ```
    
    {{< note >}}Edit the config file with a text editor of your choice, such as Notepad.{{< /note >}}

## Download as part of the Google Cloud SDK

You can install kubectl as part of the Google Cloud SDK.

1. Install the [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/).
2. Run the `kubectl` installation command:

    ```
    gcloud components install kubectl
    ```
    
3. Test to ensure the version you installed is up-to-date:

    ```
    kubectl version
    ```

## Verifying kubectl configuration 

In order for kubectl to find and access a Kubernetes cluster, it needs a [kubeconfig file](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/), which is created automatically when you create a cluster using `kube-up.sh` or successfully deploy a Minikube cluster. By default, kubectl configuration is located at `~/.kube/config`.

Check that kubectl is properly configured by getting the cluster state:

```shell
kubectl cluster-info
```
If you see a URL response, kubectl is correctly configured to access your cluster.

If you see a message similar to the following, kubectl is not configured correctly or is not able to connect to a Kubernetes cluster.

```shell
The connection to the server <server-name:port> was refused - did you specify the right host or port?
```

For example, if you are intending to run a Kubernetes cluster on your laptop (locally), you will need a tool like Minikube to be installed first and then re-run the commands stated above.

If kubectl cluster-info returns the url response but you can't access your cluster, to check whether it is configured properly, use:

```shell
kubectl cluster-info dump
```

## Optional kubectl configurations

### Enabling shell autocompletion

kubectl provides autocompletion support for Bash and Zsh, which can save you a lot of typing.

Below are the procedures to set up autocompletion for Bash (including the difference between Linux and macOS) and Zsh.

{{< tabs name="kubectl_autocompletion" >}}

{{% tab name="Bash on Linux" %}}

### Introduction

The kubectl completion script for Bash can be generated with the command `kubectl completion bash`. Sourcing the completion script in your shell enables kubectl autocompletion.

However, the completion script depends on [**bash-completion**](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion), which means that you have to install this software first (you can test if you have bash-completion already installed by running `type _init_completion`).

### Install bash-completion

bash-completion is provided by many package managers (see [here](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion#installation)). You can install it with `apt-get install bash-completion` or `yum install bash-completion`, etc.

The above commands create `/usr/share/bash-completion/bash_completion`, which is the main script of bash-completion. Depending on your package manager, you have to manually source this file in your `~/.bashrc` file.

To find out, reload your shell and run `type _init_completion`. If the command succeeds, you're already set, otherwise add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file:

```shell
source /usr/share/bash-completion/bash_completion
```

Reload your shell and verify that bash-completion is correctly installed by typing `type _init_completion`.

### Enable kubectl autocompletion

You now need to ensure that the kubectl completion script gets sourced in all your shell sessions. There are two ways in which you can do this:

- Source the completion script in your `~/.bashrc` file:

    ```shell
    echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >>~/.bashrc
    ```

- Add the completion script to the `/etc/bash_completion.d` directory:

    ```shell
    kubectl completion bash >/etc/bash_completion.d/kubectl
    ```

{{< note >}}
bash-completion sources all completion scripts in `/etc/bash_completion.d`.
{{< /note >}}

Both approaches are equivalent. After reloading your shell, kubectl autocompletion should be working.

{{% /tab %}}


{{% tab name="Bash on macOS" %}}


### Introduction

The kubectl completion script for Bash can be generated with `kubectl completion bash`. Sourcing this script in your shell enables kubectl completion.

However, the kubectl completion script depends on [**bash-completion**](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion) which you thus have to previously install.

{{< warning>}}
there are two versions of bash-completion, v1 and v2. V1 is for Bash 3.2 (which is the default on macOS), and v2 is for Bash 4.1+. The kubectl completion script **doesn't work** correctly with bash-completion v1 and Bash 3.2. It requires **bash-completion v2** and **Bash 4.1+**. Thus, to be able to correctly use kubectl completion on macOS, you have to install and use Bash 4.1+ ([*instructions*](https://itnext.io/upgrading-bash-on-macos-7138bd1066ba)). The following instructions assume that you use Bash 4.1+ (that is, any Bash version of 4.1 or newer).
{{< /warning >}}


### Install bash-completion

{{< note >}}
As mentioned, these instructions assume you use Bash 4.1+, which means you will install bash-completion v2 (in contrast to Bash 3.2 and bash-completion v1, in which case kubectl completion won't work).
{{< /note >}}

You can test if you have bash-completion v2 already installed with `type _init_completion`. If not, you can install it with Homebrew:

```shell
brew install bash-completion@2
```

As stated in the output of this command, add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file:

```shell
export BASH_COMPLETION_COMPAT_DIR="/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d"
[[ -r "/usr/local/etc/profile.d/bash_completion.sh" ]] && . "/usr/local/etc/profile.d/bash_completion.sh"
```

Reload your shell and verify that bash-completion v2 is correctly installed with `type _init_completion`.

### Enable kubectl autocompletion

You now have to ensure that the kubectl completion script gets sourced in all your shell sessions. There are multiple ways to achieve this:

- Source the completion script in your `~/.bashrc` file:

    ```shell
    echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >>~/.bashrc

    ```

- Add the completion script to the `/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d` directory:

    ```shell
    kubectl completion bash >/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/kubectl
    ```

- If you installed kubectl with Homebrew (as explained [above](#install-with-homebrew-on-macos)), then the kubectl completion script should already be in `/usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/kubectl`. In that case, you don't need to do anything.

{{< note >}}
the Homebrew installation of bash-completion v2 sources all the files in the `BASH_COMPLETION_COMPAT_DIR` directory, that's why the latter two methods work.
{{< /note >}}

In any case, after reloading your shell, kubectl completion should be working.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab name="Zsh" %}}

The kubectl completion script for Zsh can be generated with the command `kubectl completion zsh`. Sourcing the completion script in your shell enables kubectl autocompletion.

To do so in all your shell sessions, add the following to your `~/.zshrc` file:

```shell
source <(kubectl completion zsh)
```

After reloading your shell, kubectl autocompletion should be working.

If you get an error like `complete:13: command not found: compdef`, then add the following to the beginning of your `~/.zshrc` file:

```shell
autoload -Uz compinit
compinit
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}
* [Install Minikube](/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/)
* See the [getting started guides](/docs/setup/) for more about creating clusters. 
* [Learn how to launch and expose your application.](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/service-access-application-cluster/)
* If you need access to a cluster you didn't create, see the [Sharing Cluster Access document](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/).
* Read the [kubectl reference docs](/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/)
{{% /capture %}}
