content/en/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/ingress-minikube.md, before:

---
title: Set up Ingress on Minikube with the NGINX Ingress Controller
content_template: templates/task
weight: 100
---

{{% capture overview %}}

An [Ingress](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) is an API object that defines rules which allow external access 
to services in a cluster. An [Ingress controller](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/) fulfills the rules set in the Ingress. 

{{< caution >}}
For the Ingress resource to work, the cluster **must** also have an Ingress controller running.
{{< /caution >}}

This page shows you how to set up a simple Ingress which routes requests to Service web or web2 depending on the HTTP URI.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

## Create a Minikube cluster

1. Click **Launch Terminal**

    {{< kat-button >}}

1. (Optional) If you installed Minikube locally, run the following command:

    ```shell
    minikube start
    ```

## Enable the Ingress controller

1. To enable the NGINX Ingress controller, run the following command:

    ```shell
    minikube addons enable ingress
    ```
      
1. Verify that the NGINX Ingress controller is running

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods -n kube-system
    ```

    {{< note >}}This can take up to a minute.{{< /note >}}

    Output:

    ```shell
    NAME                                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    default-http-backend-59868b7dd6-xb8tq       1/1       Running   0          1m
    kube-addon-manager-minikube                 1/1       Running   0          3m
    kube-dns-6dcb57bcc8-n4xd4                   3/3       Running   0          2m
    kubernetes-dashboard-5498ccf677-b8p5h       1/1       Running   0          2m
    nginx-ingress-controller-5984b97644-rnkrg   1/1       Running   0          1m
    storage-provisioner                         1/1       Running   0          2m
    ```

## Deploy a hello, world app

1. Create a Deployment using the following command:

    ```shell
    kubectl run web --image=gcr.io/google-samples/hello-app:1.0 --port=8080
    ```

    Output:
    
    ```shell
    deployment.apps/web created
    ```

1. Expose the Deployment: 

    ```shell
    kubectl expose deployment web --target-port=8080 --type=NodePort
    ```
    
    Output: 
    
    ```shell
    service/web exposed
    ```
    
1. Verify the Service is created and is available on a node port:

    ```shell
    kubectl get service web
    ``` 
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    NAME      TYPE       CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
    web       NodePort   10.104.133.249   <none>        8080:31637/TCP   12m
    ```

1. Visit the service via NodePort:

    ```shell
    minikube service web --url
    ```
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    http://172.17.0.15:31637
    ```
    
    {{< note >}}Katacoda environment only: at the top of the terminal panel, click the plus sign, and then click **Select port to view on Host 1**. Enter the NodePort, in this case `31637`, and then click **Display Port**.{{< /note >}}
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: web-55b8c6998d-8k564
    ```
    
    You can now access the sample app via the Minikube IP address and NodePort. The next step lets you access 
    the app using the Ingress resource.

## Create an Ingress resource

The following file is an Ingress resource that sends traffic to your Service via hello-world.info.

1. Create `example-ingress.yaml` from the following file:

        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Ingress
        metadata:
          name: example-ingress
          annotations:
            nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
        spec:
         rules:
         - host: hello-world.info
           http:
             paths:
             - path: /*
               backend:
                 serviceName: web
                 servicePort: 8080

1. Create the Ingress resource by running the following command:
    
    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f example-ingress.yaml
    ```
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    ingress.extensions/example-ingress created
    ```

1. Verify the IP address is set: 

    ```shell 
    kubectl get ingress
    ```

    {{< note >}}This can take a couple of minutes.{{< /note >}}

    ```shell
    NAME              HOSTS              ADDRESS       PORTS     AGE
    example-ingress   hello-world.info   172.17.0.15   80        38s
    ```

1. Add the following line to the bottom of the `/etc/hosts` file. 

    ```
    172.17.0.15 hello-world.info
    ```

    This sends requests from hello-world.info to Minikube.

1. Verify that the Ingress controller is directing traffic:

    ```shell
    curl hello-world.info
    ```

    Output:
    
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: web-55b8c6998d-8k564
    ```

    {{< note >}}If you are running Minikube locally, you can visit hello-world.info from your browser.{{< /note >}}

## Create Second Deployment

1. Create a v2 Deployment using the following command:

    ```shell
    kubectl run web2 --image=gcr.io/google-samples/hello-app:2.0 --port=8080
    ```
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    deployment.apps/web2 created
    ```
    
1. Expose the Deployment:

    ```shell
    kubectl expose deployment web2 --target-port=8080 --type=NodePort
    ```

    Output: 
    
    ```shell
    service/web2 exposed
    ```
    
## Edit Ingress

1. Edit the existing `example-ingress.yaml` and add the following lines:  

    ```yaml
         - path: /v2/*
           backend:
             serviceName: web2
             servicePort: 8080
    ```

1. Apply the changes:

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f example-ingress.yaml
    ```

    Output: 
    ```shell
    ingress.extensions/example-ingress configured
    ```

## Test Your Ingress

1. Access the 1st version of the Hello World app.

    ```shell
    curl hello-world.info
    ```

    Output:
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: web-55b8c6998d-8k564
    ```

1. Access the 2nd version of the Hello World app.

    ```shell
    curl hello-world.info/v2
    ```

    Output:
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 2.0.0
    Hostname: web2-75cd47646f-t8cjk
    ```

    {{< note >}}If you are running Minikube locally, you can visit hello-world.info and hello-world.info/v2 from your browser.{{< /note >}}

{{% /capture %}}


{{% capture whatsnext %}}
* Read more about [Ingress](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
* Read more about [Ingress Controllers](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/)
* Read more about [Services](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)

{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

Minikube IP Address fixup for ingress demonstration (#14906)
* Updated IP Address for /etc/hosts

Tested on Minikube for macOS.

When using Minikube, the IP address listed in `kubectl get ingress` is the internal Minikube IP address and is not available on the web browser.

Added advice to the user that when using Minikube, add the Minikube IP address to the Hosts file instead of the IP address displayed in `kubectl get ingress`.

* Update ingress-minikube.md

content/en/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/ingress-minikube.md, after:

---
title: Set up Ingress on Minikube with the NGINX Ingress Controller
content_template: templates/task
weight: 100
---

{{% capture overview %}}

An [Ingress](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) is an API object that defines rules which allow external access 
to services in a cluster. An [Ingress controller](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/) fulfills the rules set in the Ingress. 

{{< caution >}}
For the Ingress resource to work, the cluster **must** also have an Ingress controller running.
{{< /caution >}}

This page shows you how to set up a simple Ingress which routes requests to Service web or web2 depending on the HTTP URI.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

## Create a Minikube cluster

1. Click **Launch Terminal**

    {{< kat-button >}}

1. (Optional) If you installed Minikube locally, run the following command:

    ```shell
    minikube start
    ```

## Enable the Ingress controller

1. To enable the NGINX Ingress controller, run the following command:

    ```shell
    minikube addons enable ingress
    ```
      
1. Verify that the NGINX Ingress controller is running

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods -n kube-system
    ```

    {{< note >}}This can take up to a minute.{{< /note >}}

    Output:

    ```shell
    NAME                                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    default-http-backend-59868b7dd6-xb8tq       1/1       Running   0          1m
    kube-addon-manager-minikube                 1/1       Running   0          3m
    kube-dns-6dcb57bcc8-n4xd4                   3/3       Running   0          2m
    kubernetes-dashboard-5498ccf677-b8p5h       1/1       Running   0          2m
    nginx-ingress-controller-5984b97644-rnkrg   1/1       Running   0          1m
    storage-provisioner                         1/1       Running   0          2m
    ```

## Deploy a hello, world app

1. Create a Deployment using the following command:

    ```shell
    kubectl run web --image=gcr.io/google-samples/hello-app:1.0 --port=8080
    ```

    Output:
    
    ```shell
    deployment.apps/web created
    ```

1. Expose the Deployment: 

    ```shell
    kubectl expose deployment web --target-port=8080 --type=NodePort
    ```
    
    Output: 
    
    ```shell
    service/web exposed
    ```
    
1. Verify the Service is created and is available on a node port:

    ```shell
    kubectl get service web
    ``` 
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    NAME      TYPE       CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
    web       NodePort   10.104.133.249   <none>        8080:31637/TCP   12m
    ```

1. Visit the service via NodePort:

    ```shell
    minikube service web --url
    ```
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    http://172.17.0.15:31637
    ```
    
    {{< note >}}Katacoda environment only: at the top of the terminal panel, click the plus sign, and then click **Select port to view on Host 1**. Enter the NodePort, in this case `31637`, and then click **Display Port**.{{< /note >}}
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: web-55b8c6998d-8k564
    ```
    
    You can now access the sample app via the Minikube IP address and NodePort. The next step lets you access 
    the app using the Ingress resource.

## Create an Ingress resource

The following file is an Ingress resource that sends traffic to your Service via hello-world.info.

1. Create `example-ingress.yaml` from the following file:

        apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
        kind: Ingress
        metadata:
          name: example-ingress
          annotations:
            nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
        spec:
         rules:
         - host: hello-world.info
           http:
             paths:
             - path: /*
               backend:
                 serviceName: web
                 servicePort: 8080

1. Create the Ingress resource by running the following command:
    
    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f example-ingress.yaml
    ```
    
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    ingress.extensions/example-ingress created
    ```

1. Verify the IP address is set: 

    ```shell 
    kubectl get ingress
    ```

    {{< note >}}This can take a couple of minutes.{{< /note >}}

    ```shell
    NAME              HOSTS              ADDRESS       PORTS     AGE
    example-ingress   hello-world.info   172.17.0.15   80        38s
    ```

1. Add the following line to the bottom of the `/etc/hosts` file. 

    {{< note >}}If you are running Minikube locally, use `minikube ip` to get the external IP. The IP address displayed within the ingress list will be the internal IP.{{< /note >}}

    ```
    172.17.0.15 hello-world.info
    ```

    This sends requests from hello-world.info to Minikube.

1. Verify that the Ingress controller is directing traffic:

    ```shell
    curl hello-world.info
    ```

    Output:
    
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: web-55b8c6998d-8k564
    ```

    {{< note >}}If you are running Minikube locally, you can visit hello-world.info from your browser.{{< /note >}}

## Create Second Deployment

1. Create a v2 Deployment using the following command:

    ```shell
    kubectl run web2 --image=gcr.io/google-samples/hello-app:2.0 --port=8080
    ```
    Output:
    
    ```shell
    deployment.apps/web2 created
    ```
    
1. Expose the Deployment:

    ```shell
    kubectl expose deployment web2 --target-port=8080 --type=NodePort
    ```

    Output: 
    
    ```shell
    service/web2 exposed
    ```
    
## Edit Ingress

1. Edit the existing `example-ingress.yaml` and add the following lines:  

    ```yaml
         - path: /v2/*
           backend:
             serviceName: web2
             servicePort: 8080
    ```

1. Apply the changes:

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f example-ingress.yaml
    ```

    Output: 
    ```shell
    ingress.extensions/example-ingress configured
    ```

## Test Your Ingress

1. Access the 1st version of the Hello World app.

    ```shell
    curl hello-world.info
    ```

    Output:
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 1.0.0
    Hostname: web-55b8c6998d-8k564
    ```

1. Access the 2nd version of the Hello World app.

    ```shell
    curl hello-world.info/v2
    ```

    Output:
    ```shell
    Hello, world!
    Version: 2.0.0
    Hostname: web2-75cd47646f-t8cjk
    ```

    {{< note >}}If you are running Minikube locally, you can visit hello-world.info and hello-world.info/v2 from your browser.{{< /note >}}

{{% /capture %}}


{{% capture whatsnext %}}
* Read more about [Ingress](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)
* Read more about [Ingress Controllers](/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/)
* Read more about [Services](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)

{{% /capture %}}
