content/en/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-init.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- mikedanese
- luxas
- jbeda
title: kubeadm init
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---
{{% capture overview %}}
This command initializes a Kubernetes control-plane node.
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

{{< include "generated/kubeadm_init.md" >}}

### Init workflow {#init-workflow}
`kubeadm init` bootstraps a Kubernetes control-plane node by executing the
following steps:

1. Runs a series of pre-flight checks to validate the system state
   before making changes. Some checks only trigger warnings, others are
   considered errors and will exit kubeadm until the problem is corrected or the
   user specifies `--ignore-preflight-errors=<list-of-errors>`.

1. Generates a self-signed CA (or using an existing one if provided) to set up
   identities for each component in the cluster. If the user has provided their
   own CA cert and/or key by dropping it in the cert directory configured via `--cert-dir`
   (`/etc/kubernetes/pki` by default) this step is skipped as described in the
   [Using custom certificates](#custom-certificates) document.
   The APIServer certs will have additional SAN entries for any `--apiserver-cert-extra-sans` arguments, lowercased if necessary.

1. Writes kubeconfig files in `/etc/kubernetes/`  for
   the kubelet, the controller-manager and the scheduler to use to connect to the
   API server, each with its own identity, as well as an additional
   kubeconfig file for administration named `admin.conf`.

1. Generates static Pod manifests for the API server,
   controller manager and scheduler. In case an external etcd is not provided,
   an additional static Pod manifest is generated for etcd.

   Static Pod manifests are written to `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`; the kubelet
   watches this directory for Pods to create on startup.

   Once control plane Pods are up and running, the `kubeadm init` sequence can continue.

1. Apply labels and taints to the control-plane node so that no additional workloads will
   run there.

1. Generates the token that additional nodes can use to register
   themselves with a control-plane in the future. Optionally, the user can provide a
   token via `--token`, as described in the
   [kubeadm token](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-token/) docs.

1. Makes all the necessary configurations for allowing node joining with the
   [Bootstrap Tokens](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/bootstrap-tokens/) and
   [TLS Bootstrap](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-tls-bootstrapping/)
   mechanism:

   - Write a ConfigMap for making available all the information required
     for joining, and set up related RBAC access rules.

   - Let Bootstrap Tokens access the CSR signing API.

   - Configure auto-approval for new CSR requests.

   See [kubeadm join](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-join/) for additional info.

1. Installs a DNS server (CoreDNS) and the kube-proxy addon components via the API server.
   In Kubernetes version 1.11 and later CoreDNS is the default DNS server.
   To install kube-dns instead of CoreDNS, the DNS addon has to be configured in the kubeadm `ClusterConfiguration`. For more information about the configuration see the section
   `Using kubeadm init with a configuration file` below.
   Please note that although the DNS server is deployed, it will not be scheduled until CNI is installed.

### Using init phases with kubeadm {#init-phases}

Kubeadm allows you create a control-plane node in phases. In 1.13 the `kubeadm init phase` command has graduated to GA from it’s previous alpha state under `kubeadm alpha phase`.

To view the ordered list of phases and sub-phases you can call `kubeadm init --help`. The list will be located at the top of the help screen and each phase will have a description next to it.
Note that by calling `kubeadm init` all of the phases and sub-phases will be executed in this exact order.

Some phases have unique flags, so if you want to have a look at the list of available options add `--help`, for example:

```shell
sudo kubeadm init phase control-plane controller-manager --help
```

You can also use `--help` to see the list of sub-phases for a certain parent phase:

```shell
sudo kubeadm init phase control-plane --help
```

`kubeadm init` also exposes a flag called `--skip-phases` that can be used to skip certain phases. The flag accepts a list of phase names and the names can be taken from the above ordered list.

An example:

```shell
sudo kubeadm init phase control-plane all --config=configfile.yaml
sudo kubeadm init phase etcd local --config=configfile.yaml
# you can now modify the control plane and etcd manifest files
sudo kubeadm init --skip-phases=control-plane,etcd --config=configfile.yaml
```

What this example would do is write the manifest files for the control plane and etcd in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` based on the configuration in `configfile.yaml`. This allows you to modify the files and then skip these phases using `--skip-phases`. By calling the last command you will create a control plane node with the custom manifest files.

### Using kubeadm init with a configuration file {#config-file}

{{< caution >}}
The config file is still considered beta and may change in future versions.
{{< /caution >}}

It's possible to configure `kubeadm init` with a configuration file instead of command
line flags, and some more advanced features may only be available as
configuration file options. This file is passed in the `--config` option.

In Kubernetes 1.11 and later, the default configuration can be printed out using the
[kubeadm config print](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/) command.

It is **recommended** that you migrate your old `v1beta1` configuration to `v1beta2` using
the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/) command.

For more details on each field in the `v1beta2` configuration you can navigate to our
[API reference pages](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubernetes/cmd/kubeadm/app/apis/kubeadm/v1beta2).

### Adding kube-proxy parameters {#kube-proxy}

For information about kube-proxy parameters in the kubeadm configuration see:
- [kube-proxy](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/proxy/apis/config#KubeProxyConfiguration)

For information about enabling IPVS mode with kubeadm see:
- [IPVS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/proxy/ipvs/README.md)

### Passing custom flags to control plane components {#control-plane-flags}

For information about passing flags to control plane components see:
- [control-plane-flags](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/control-plane-flags/)

### Using custom images {#custom-images}

By default, kubeadm pulls images from `k8s.gcr.io`, unless
the requested Kubernetes version is a CI version. In this case,
`gcr.io/kubernetes-ci-images` is used.

You can override this behavior by using [kubeadm with a configuration file](#config-file).
Allowed customization are:

* To provide an alternative `imageRepository` to be used instead of
  `k8s.gcr.io`.
* To set `useHyperKubeImage` to `true` to use the HyperKube image.
* To provide a specific `imageRepository` and `imageTag` for etcd or DNS add-on.

Please note that the configuration field `kubernetesVersion` or the command line flag
`--kubernetes-version` affect the version of the images.

### Uploading control-plane certificates to the cluster

By adding the flag `--upload-certs` to `kubeadm init` you can temporary upload
the control-plane certificates to a Secret in the cluster. Please note that this Secret
will expire automatically after 2 hours. The certificates are encrypted using
a 32byte key that can be specified using `--certificate-key`. The same key can be used
to download the certificates when additional control-plane nodes are joining, by passing
`--control-plane` and `--certificate-key` to `kubeadm join`.

The following phase command can be used to re-upload the certificates after expiration:

```
kubeadm init phase upload-certs --upload-certs --certificate-key=SOME_VALUE
```

If the flag `--certificate-key` is not passed to `kubeadm init` and
`kubeadm init phase upload-certs` a new key will be generated automatically.

The following command can be used to generate a new key on demand:

```
kubeadm alpha certs certificate-key
```

### Using custom certificates {#custom-certificates}

By default, kubeadm generates all the certificates needed for a cluster to run.
You can override this behavior by providing your own certificates.

To do so, you must place them in whatever directory is specified by the
`--cert-dir` flag or `CertificatesDir` configuration file key. By default this
is `/etc/kubernetes/pki`.

If a given certificate and private key pair exists, kubeadm skips the
generation step and existing files are used for the prescribed
use case. This means you can, for example, copy an existing CA into `/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt`
and `/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.key`, and kubeadm will use this CA for signing the rest
of the certs.

#### External CA mode {#external-ca-mode}

It is also possible to provide just the `ca.crt` file and not the
`ca.key` file (this is only available for the root CA file, not other cert pairs).
If all other certificates and kubeconfig files are in place, kubeadm recognizes
this condition and activates the "External CA" mode. kubeadm will proceed without the
CA key on disk.

Instead, run the controller-manager standalone with `--controllers=csrsigner` and
point to the CA certificate and key.

### Managing the kubeadm drop-in file for the kubelet {#kubelet-drop-in}

The kubeadm package ships with configuration for how the kubelet should
be run. Note that the `kubeadm` CLI command never touches this drop-in file.
This drop-in file belongs to the kubeadm deb/rpm package.

This is what it looks like:


```
[Service]
Environment="KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS=--bootstrap-kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/bootstrap-kubelet.conf
--kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf"
Environment="KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS=--config=/var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml"
# This is a file that "kubeadm init" and "kubeadm join" generates at runtime, populating
the KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS variable dynamically
EnvironmentFile=-/var/lib/kubelet/kubeadm-flags.env
# This is a file that the user can use for overrides of the kubelet args as a last resort. Preferably,
#the user should use the .NodeRegistration.KubeletExtraArgs object in the configuration files instead.
# KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS should be sourced from this file.
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/kubelet
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/bin/kubelet $KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS $KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS
```

Here's a breakdown of what/why:

* `--bootstrap-kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/bootstrap-kubelet.conf` path to a kubeconfig
   file that is used to get client certificates for kubelet during node join.
   On success, a kubeconfig file is written to the path specified by `--kubeconfig`.
* `--kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf` points to the kubeconfig file that
   tells the kubelet where the API server is. This file also has the kubelet's
   credentials.
* `--pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests` specifies from where to read
   static Pod manifests used for starting the control plane.
* `--allow-privileged=true` allows this kubelet to run privileged Pods.
* `--network-plugin=cni` uses CNI networking.
* `--cni-conf-dir=/etc/cni/net.d` specifies where to look for the
   [CNI spec file(s)](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni/blob/master/SPEC.md).
* `--cni-bin-dir=/opt/cni/bin` specifies where to look for the actual CNI binaries.
* `--cluster-dns=10.96.0.10` use this cluster-internal DNS server for `nameserver`
   entries in Pods' `/etc/resolv.conf`.
* `--cluster-domain=cluster.local` uses this cluster-internal DNS domain for
   `search` entries in Pods' `/etc/resolv.conf`.
* `--client-ca-file=/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt` authenticates requests to the Kubelet
   API using this CA certificate.
* `--authorization-mode=Webhook` authorizes requests to the Kubelet API by `POST`-ing
   a `SubjectAccessReview` to the API server.
* `--rotate-certificates` auto rotate the kubelet client certificates by requesting new
   certificates from the `kube-apiserver` when the certificate expiration approaches.
* `--cert-dir`the directory where the TLS certs are located.

### Use kubeadm with CRI runtimes

Since v1.6.0, Kubernetes has enabled the use of CRI, Container Runtime Interface, by default.
The container runtime used by default is Docker, which is enabled through the built-in
`dockershim` CRI implementation inside of the `kubelet`.

Other CRI-based runtimes include:

- [cri-containerd](https://github.com/containerd/cri-containerd)
- [cri-o](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/cri-o)
- [frakti](https://github.com/kubernetes/frakti)
- [rkt](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/rktlet)

Refer to the [CRI installation instructions](/docs/setup/cri) for more information.

After you have successfully installed `kubeadm` and `kubelet`, execute
these two additional steps:

1. Install the runtime shim on every node, following the installation
   document in the runtime shim project listing above.

1. Configure kubelet to use the remote CRI runtime. Please remember to change
   `RUNTIME_ENDPOINT` to your own value like `/var/run/{your_runtime}.sock`:

```shell
cat > /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/20-cri.conf <<EOF
[Service]
Environment="KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS=--container-runtime=remote --container-runtime-endpoint=$RUNTIME_ENDPOINT"
EOF
systemctl daemon-reload
```

Now `kubelet` is ready to use the specified CRI runtime, and you can continue
with the `kubeadm init` and `kubeadm join` workflow to deploy Kubernetes cluster.

You may also want to set `--cri-socket` to `kubeadm init` and `kubeadm reset` when
using an external CRI implementation.

### Setting the node name

By default, `kubeadm` assigns a node name based on a machine's host address. You can override this setting with the `--node-name`flag.
The flag passes the appropriate [`--hostname-override`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/#options)
to the kubelet.

Be aware that overriding the hostname can [interfere with cloud providers](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/8873).

### Running kubeadm without an internet connection

For running kubeadm without an internet connection you have to pre-pull the required control-plane images.

In Kubernetes 1.11 and later, you can list and pull the images using the `kubeadm config images` sub-command:

```shell
kubeadm config images list
kubeadm config images pull
```

In Kubernetes 1.12 and later, the `k8s.gcr.io/kube-*`, `k8s.gcr.io/etcd` and `k8s.gcr.io/pause` images
don't require an `-${ARCH}` suffix.

### Automating kubeadm

Rather than copying the token you obtained from `kubeadm init` to each node, as
in the [basic kubeadm tutorial](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/), you can parallelize the
token distribution for easier automation. To implement this automation, you must
know the IP address that the control-plane node will have after it is started.

1.  Generate a token. This token must have the form  `<6 character string>.<16
    character string>`.  More formally, it must match the regex:
    `[a-z0-9]{6}\.[a-z0-9]{16}`.

    kubeadm can generate a token for you:

    ```shell
    kubeadm token generate
    ```

1.  Start both the control-plane node and the worker nodes concurrently with this token.
    As they come up they should find each other and form the cluster.  The same
    `--token` argument can be used on both `kubeadm init` and `kubeadm join`.

1.  Similar can be done for `--certificate-key` when joining additional control-plane
    nodes. The key can be generated using:

    ```shell
    kubeadm alpha certs certificate-key
    ```

Once the cluster is up, you can grab the admin credentials from the control-plane node
at `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf` and use that to talk to the cluster.

Note that this style of bootstrap has some relaxed security guarantees because
it does not allow the root CA hash to be validated with
`--discovery-token-ca-cert-hash` (since it's not generated when the nodes are
provisioned). For details, see the [kubeadm join](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-join/).

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}
* [kubeadm init phase](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-init-phase/) to understand more about
`kubeadm init` phases
* [kubeadm join](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-join/) to bootstrap a Kubernetes worker node and join it to the cluster
* [kubeadm upgrade](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/) to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster to a newer version
* [kubeadm reset](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-reset/) to revert any changes made to this host by `kubeadm init` or `kubeadm join`
{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

clarify better where 10-kubeadm.conf comes from in kubeadm/kubeadm-init.md (#15421)
* clarify better where 10-kubeadm.conf comes from in kubeadm/kubeadm-init.md

* minor formatting fix as requested in review

content/en/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-init.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- mikedanese
- luxas
- jbeda
title: kubeadm init
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---
{{% capture overview %}}
This command initializes a Kubernetes control-plane node.
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

{{< include "generated/kubeadm_init.md" >}}

### Init workflow {#init-workflow}
`kubeadm init` bootstraps a Kubernetes control-plane node by executing the
following steps:

1. Runs a series of pre-flight checks to validate the system state
   before making changes. Some checks only trigger warnings, others are
   considered errors and will exit kubeadm until the problem is corrected or the
   user specifies `--ignore-preflight-errors=<list-of-errors>`.

1. Generates a self-signed CA (or using an existing one if provided) to set up
   identities for each component in the cluster. If the user has provided their
   own CA cert and/or key by dropping it in the cert directory configured via `--cert-dir`
   (`/etc/kubernetes/pki` by default) this step is skipped as described in the
   [Using custom certificates](#custom-certificates) document.
   The APIServer certs will have additional SAN entries for any `--apiserver-cert-extra-sans` arguments, lowercased if necessary.

1. Writes kubeconfig files in `/etc/kubernetes/`  for
   the kubelet, the controller-manager and the scheduler to use to connect to the
   API server, each with its own identity, as well as an additional
   kubeconfig file for administration named `admin.conf`.

1. Generates static Pod manifests for the API server,
   controller manager and scheduler. In case an external etcd is not provided,
   an additional static Pod manifest is generated for etcd.

   Static Pod manifests are written to `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`; the kubelet
   watches this directory for Pods to create on startup.

   Once control plane Pods are up and running, the `kubeadm init` sequence can continue.

1. Apply labels and taints to the control-plane node so that no additional workloads will
   run there.

1. Generates the token that additional nodes can use to register
   themselves with a control-plane in the future. Optionally, the user can provide a
   token via `--token`, as described in the
   [kubeadm token](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-token/) docs.

1. Makes all the necessary configurations for allowing node joining with the
   [Bootstrap Tokens](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/bootstrap-tokens/) and
   [TLS Bootstrap](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-tls-bootstrapping/)
   mechanism:

   - Write a ConfigMap for making available all the information required
     for joining, and set up related RBAC access rules.

   - Let Bootstrap Tokens access the CSR signing API.

   - Configure auto-approval for new CSR requests.

   See [kubeadm join](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-join/) for additional info.

1. Installs a DNS server (CoreDNS) and the kube-proxy addon components via the API server.
   In Kubernetes version 1.11 and later CoreDNS is the default DNS server.
   To install kube-dns instead of CoreDNS, the DNS addon has to be configured in the kubeadm `ClusterConfiguration`. For more information about the configuration see the section
   `Using kubeadm init with a configuration file` below.
   Please note that although the DNS server is deployed, it will not be scheduled until CNI is installed.

### Using init phases with kubeadm {#init-phases}

Kubeadm allows you create a control-plane node in phases. In 1.13 the `kubeadm init phase` command has graduated to GA from it’s previous alpha state under `kubeadm alpha phase`.

To view the ordered list of phases and sub-phases you can call `kubeadm init --help`. The list will be located at the top of the help screen and each phase will have a description next to it.
Note that by calling `kubeadm init` all of the phases and sub-phases will be executed in this exact order.

Some phases have unique flags, so if you want to have a look at the list of available options add `--help`, for example:

```shell
sudo kubeadm init phase control-plane controller-manager --help
```

You can also use `--help` to see the list of sub-phases for a certain parent phase:

```shell
sudo kubeadm init phase control-plane --help
```

`kubeadm init` also exposes a flag called `--skip-phases` that can be used to skip certain phases. The flag accepts a list of phase names and the names can be taken from the above ordered list.

An example:

```shell
sudo kubeadm init phase control-plane all --config=configfile.yaml
sudo kubeadm init phase etcd local --config=configfile.yaml
# you can now modify the control plane and etcd manifest files
sudo kubeadm init --skip-phases=control-plane,etcd --config=configfile.yaml
```

What this example would do is write the manifest files for the control plane and etcd in `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` based on the configuration in `configfile.yaml`. This allows you to modify the files and then skip these phases using `--skip-phases`. By calling the last command you will create a control plane node with the custom manifest files.

### Using kubeadm init with a configuration file {#config-file}

{{< caution >}}
The config file is still considered beta and may change in future versions.
{{< /caution >}}

It's possible to configure `kubeadm init` with a configuration file instead of command
line flags, and some more advanced features may only be available as
configuration file options. This file is passed in the `--config` option.

In Kubernetes 1.11 and later, the default configuration can be printed out using the
[kubeadm config print](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/) command.

It is **recommended** that you migrate your old `v1beta1` configuration to `v1beta2` using
the [kubeadm config migrate](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-config/) command.

For more details on each field in the `v1beta2` configuration you can navigate to our
[API reference pages](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubernetes/cmd/kubeadm/app/apis/kubeadm/v1beta2).

### Adding kube-proxy parameters {#kube-proxy}

For information about kube-proxy parameters in the kubeadm configuration see:
- [kube-proxy](https://godoc.org/k8s.io/kubernetes/pkg/proxy/apis/config#KubeProxyConfiguration)

For information about enabling IPVS mode with kubeadm see:
- [IPVS](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/proxy/ipvs/README.md)

### Passing custom flags to control plane components {#control-plane-flags}

For information about passing flags to control plane components see:
- [control-plane-flags](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/control-plane-flags/)

### Using custom images {#custom-images}

By default, kubeadm pulls images from `k8s.gcr.io`, unless
the requested Kubernetes version is a CI version. In this case,
`gcr.io/kubernetes-ci-images` is used.

You can override this behavior by using [kubeadm with a configuration file](#config-file).
Allowed customization are:

* To provide an alternative `imageRepository` to be used instead of
  `k8s.gcr.io`.
* To set `useHyperKubeImage` to `true` to use the HyperKube image.
* To provide a specific `imageRepository` and `imageTag` for etcd or DNS add-on.

Please note that the configuration field `kubernetesVersion` or the command line flag
`--kubernetes-version` affect the version of the images.

### Uploading control-plane certificates to the cluster

By adding the flag `--upload-certs` to `kubeadm init` you can temporary upload
the control-plane certificates to a Secret in the cluster. Please note that this Secret
will expire automatically after 2 hours. The certificates are encrypted using
a 32byte key that can be specified using `--certificate-key`. The same key can be used
to download the certificates when additional control-plane nodes are joining, by passing
`--control-plane` and `--certificate-key` to `kubeadm join`.

The following phase command can be used to re-upload the certificates after expiration:

```
kubeadm init phase upload-certs --upload-certs --certificate-key=SOME_VALUE
```

If the flag `--certificate-key` is not passed to `kubeadm init` and
`kubeadm init phase upload-certs` a new key will be generated automatically.

The following command can be used to generate a new key on demand:

```
kubeadm alpha certs certificate-key
```

### Using custom certificates {#custom-certificates}

By default, kubeadm generates all the certificates needed for a cluster to run.
You can override this behavior by providing your own certificates.

To do so, you must place them in whatever directory is specified by the
`--cert-dir` flag or `CertificatesDir` configuration file key. By default this
is `/etc/kubernetes/pki`.

If a given certificate and private key pair exists, kubeadm skips the
generation step and existing files are used for the prescribed
use case. This means you can, for example, copy an existing CA into `/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt`
and `/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.key`, and kubeadm will use this CA for signing the rest
of the certs.

#### External CA mode {#external-ca-mode}

It is also possible to provide just the `ca.crt` file and not the
`ca.key` file (this is only available for the root CA file, not other cert pairs).
If all other certificates and kubeconfig files are in place, kubeadm recognizes
this condition and activates the "External CA" mode. kubeadm will proceed without the
CA key on disk.

Instead, run the controller-manager standalone with `--controllers=csrsigner` and
point to the CA certificate and key.

### Managing the kubeadm drop-in file for the kubelet {#kubelet-drop-in}

The `kubeadm` package ships with configuration for how the `kubelet` should
be run by `systemd`. Note that the `kubeadm` CLI command never touches this drop-in file.
This drop-in file belongs to the `kubeadm` DEB/RPM package.

This is what it looks like (from [`10-kubeadm.conf` for RPM](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/build/rpms/10-kubeadm.conf), resp. [`10-kubeadm.conf` for DEB](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/build/debs/10-kubeadm.conf)), which augments the basic [`kubelet.service` for RPM](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/build/rpms/kubelet.service) (resp. [`kubelet.service` for DEB](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/build/debs/kubelet.service))):


```
[Service]
Environment="KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS=--bootstrap-kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/bootstrap-kubelet.conf
--kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf"
Environment="KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS=--config=/var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml"
# This is a file that "kubeadm init" and "kubeadm join" generates at runtime, populating
the KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS variable dynamically
EnvironmentFile=-/var/lib/kubelet/kubeadm-flags.env
# This is a file that the user can use for overrides of the kubelet args as a last resort. Preferably,
#the user should use the .NodeRegistration.KubeletExtraArgs object in the configuration files instead.
# KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS should be sourced from this file.
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/kubelet
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/bin/kubelet $KUBELET_KUBECONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_CONFIG_ARGS $KUBELET_KUBEADM_ARGS $KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS
```

Here's a breakdown of what/why:

* `--bootstrap-kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/bootstrap-kubelet.conf` path to a kubeconfig
   file that is used to get client certificates for kubelet during node join.
   On success, a kubeconfig file is written to the path specified by `--kubeconfig`.
* `--kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf` points to the kubeconfig file that
   tells the kubelet where the API server is. This file also has the kubelet's
   credentials.
* `--pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests` specifies from where to read
   static Pod manifests used for starting the control plane.
* `--allow-privileged=true` allows this kubelet to run privileged Pods.
* `--network-plugin=cni` uses CNI networking.
* `--cni-conf-dir=/etc/cni/net.d` specifies where to look for the
   [CNI spec file(s)](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni/blob/master/SPEC.md).
* `--cni-bin-dir=/opt/cni/bin` specifies where to look for the actual CNI binaries.
* `--cluster-dns=10.96.0.10` use this cluster-internal DNS server for `nameserver`
   entries in Pods' `/etc/resolv.conf`.
* `--cluster-domain=cluster.local` uses this cluster-internal DNS domain for
   `search` entries in Pods' `/etc/resolv.conf`.
* `--client-ca-file=/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt` authenticates requests to the Kubelet
   API using this CA certificate.
* `--authorization-mode=Webhook` authorizes requests to the Kubelet API by `POST`-ing
   a `SubjectAccessReview` to the API server.
* `--rotate-certificates` auto rotate the kubelet client certificates by requesting new
   certificates from the `kube-apiserver` when the certificate expiration approaches.
* `--cert-dir`the directory where the TLS certs are located.

### Use kubeadm with CRI runtimes

Since v1.6.0, Kubernetes has enabled the use of CRI, Container Runtime Interface, by default.
The container runtime used by default is Docker, which is enabled through the built-in
`dockershim` CRI implementation inside of the `kubelet`.

Other CRI-based runtimes include:

- [cri-containerd](https://github.com/containerd/cri-containerd)
- [cri-o](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/cri-o)
- [frakti](https://github.com/kubernetes/frakti)
- [rkt](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/rktlet)

Refer to the [CRI installation instructions](/docs/setup/cri) for more information.

After you have successfully installed `kubeadm` and `kubelet`, execute
these two additional steps:

1. Install the runtime shim on every node, following the installation
   document in the runtime shim project listing above.

1. Configure kubelet to use the remote CRI runtime. Please remember to change
   `RUNTIME_ENDPOINT` to your own value like `/var/run/{your_runtime}.sock`:

```shell
cat > /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/20-cri.conf <<EOF
[Service]
Environment="KUBELET_EXTRA_ARGS=--container-runtime=remote --container-runtime-endpoint=$RUNTIME_ENDPOINT"
EOF
systemctl daemon-reload
```

Now `kubelet` is ready to use the specified CRI runtime, and you can continue
with the `kubeadm init` and `kubeadm join` workflow to deploy Kubernetes cluster.

You may also want to set `--cri-socket` to `kubeadm init` and `kubeadm reset` when
using an external CRI implementation.

### Setting the node name

By default, `kubeadm` assigns a node name based on a machine's host address. You can override this setting with the `--node-name`flag.
The flag passes the appropriate [`--hostname-override`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/#options)
to the kubelet.

Be aware that overriding the hostname can [interfere with cloud providers](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/8873).

### Running kubeadm without an internet connection

For running kubeadm without an internet connection you have to pre-pull the required control-plane images.

In Kubernetes 1.11 and later, you can list and pull the images using the `kubeadm config images` sub-command:

```shell
kubeadm config images list
kubeadm config images pull
```

In Kubernetes 1.12 and later, the `k8s.gcr.io/kube-*`, `k8s.gcr.io/etcd` and `k8s.gcr.io/pause` images
don't require an `-${ARCH}` suffix.

### Automating kubeadm

Rather than copying the token you obtained from `kubeadm init` to each node, as
in the [basic kubeadm tutorial](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/), you can parallelize the
token distribution for easier automation. To implement this automation, you must
know the IP address that the control-plane node will have after it is started.

1.  Generate a token. This token must have the form  `<6 character string>.<16
    character string>`.  More formally, it must match the regex:
    `[a-z0-9]{6}\.[a-z0-9]{16}`.

    kubeadm can generate a token for you:

    ```shell
    kubeadm token generate
    ```

1.  Start both the control-plane node and the worker nodes concurrently with this token.
    As they come up they should find each other and form the cluster.  The same
    `--token` argument can be used on both `kubeadm init` and `kubeadm join`.

1.  Similar can be done for `--certificate-key` when joining additional control-plane
    nodes. The key can be generated using:

    ```shell
    kubeadm alpha certs certificate-key
    ```

Once the cluster is up, you can grab the admin credentials from the control-plane node
at `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf` and use that to talk to the cluster.

Note that this style of bootstrap has some relaxed security guarantees because
it does not allow the root CA hash to be validated with
`--discovery-token-ca-cert-hash` (since it's not generated when the nodes are
provisioned). For details, see the [kubeadm join](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-join/).

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}
* [kubeadm init phase](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-init-phase/) to understand more about
`kubeadm init` phases
* [kubeadm join](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-join/) to bootstrap a Kubernetes worker node and join it to the cluster
* [kubeadm upgrade](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/) to upgrade a Kubernetes cluster to a newer version
* [kubeadm reset](/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/kubeadm-reset/) to revert any changes made to this host by `kubeadm init` or `kubeadm join`
{{% /capture %}}
