content/en/docs/tutorials/stateful-application/mysql-wordpress-persistent-volume.md, before:

---
title: "Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes"
reviewers:
- ahmetb
content_template: templates/tutorial
weight: 20
card: 
  name: tutorials
  weight: 40
  title: "Stateful Example: Wordpress with Persistent Volumes"
---

{{% capture overview %}}
This tutorial shows you how to deploy a WordPress site and a MySQL database using Minikube. Both applications use PersistentVolumes and PersistentVolumeClaims to store data. 

A [PersistentVolume](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) (PV) is a piece of storage in the cluster that has been manually provisioned by an administrator, or dynamically provisioned by Kubernetes using a [StorageClass](/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes).  A [PersistentVolumeClaim](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims) (PVC) is a request for storage by a user that can be fulfilled by a PV. PersistentVolumes and PersistentVolumeClaims are independent from Pod lifecycles and preserve data through restarting, rescheduling, and even deleting Pods.

{{< warning >}}
This deployment is not suitable for production use cases, as it uses single instance WordPress and MySQL Pods. Consider using [WordPress Helm Chart](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/wordpress) to deploy WordPress in production.
{{< /warning >}}

{{< note >}}
The files provided in this tutorial are using GA Deployment APIs and are specific to kubernetes version 1.9 and later. If you wish to use this tutorial with an earlier version of Kubernetes, please update the API version appropriately, or reference earlier versions of this tutorial.
{{< /note >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture objectives %}}
* Create PersistentVolumeClaims and PersistentVolumes
* Create a `kustomization.yaml` with
  * a Secret generator
  * MySQL resource configs
  * WordPress resource configs
* Apply the kustomization directory by `kubectl apply -k ./`
* Clean up

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}
The example shown on this page works with `kubectl` 1.14 and above.

Download the following configuration files:

1. [mysql-deployment.yaml](/examples/application/wordpress/mysql-deployment.yaml)

1. [wordpress-deployment.yaml](/examples/application/wordpress/wordpress-deployment.yaml)

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture lessoncontent %}} 

## Create PersistentVolumeClaims and PersistentVolumes

MySQL and Wordpress each require a PersistentVolume to store data.  Their PersistentVolumeClaims will be created at the deployment step.

Many cluster environments have a default StorageClass installed.  When a StorageClass is not specified in the PersistentVolumeClaim, the cluster's default StorageClass is used instead.

When a PersistentVolumeClaim is created, a PersistentVolume is dynamically provisioned based on the StorageClass configuration.

{{< warning >}}
In local clusters, the default StorageClass uses the `hostPath` provisioner.  `hostPath` volumes are only suitable for development and testing. With `hostPath` volumes, your data lives in `/tmp` on the node the Pod is scheduled onto and does not move between nodes. If a Pod dies and gets scheduled to another node in the cluster, or the node is rebooted, the data is lost.
{{< /warning >}}

{{< note >}}
If you are bringing up a cluster that needs to use the `hostPath` provisioner, the `--enable-hostpath-provisioner` flag must be set in the `controller-manager` component.
{{< /note >}}

{{< note >}}
If you have a Kubernetes cluster running on Google Kubernetes Engine, please follow [this guide](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/tutorials/persistent-disk).
{{< /note >}}

## Create a kustomization.yaml

### Add a Secret generator
A [Secret](/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) is an object that stores a piece of sensitive data like a password or key. Since 1.14, `kubectl` supports the management of Kubernetes objects using a kustomization file. You can create a Secret by generators in `kustomization.yaml`.

Add a Secret generator in `kustomization.yaml` from the following command. You will need to replace `YOUR_PASSWORD` with the password you want to use.

```shell
cat <<EOF >./kustomization.yaml
secretGenerator:
- name: mysql-pass
  literals:
  - password=YOUR_PASSWORD
EOF
```

## Add resource configs for MySQL and WordPress

The following manifest describes a single-instance MySQL Deployment. The MySQL container mounts the PersistentVolume at /var/lib/mysql. The `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD` environment variable sets the database password from the Secret. 

{{< codenew file="application/wordpress/mysql-deployment.yaml" >}}

1. Download the MySQL deployment configuration file.

      ```shell
      curl -LO https://k8s.io/examples/application/wordpress/mysql-deployment.yaml
      ```
            
2. Download the WordPress configuration file.

      ```shell
      curl -LO https://k8s.io/examples/application/wordpress/wordpress-deployment.yaml
      ```
      
3. Add them to `kustomization.yaml` file.

      ```shell
      cat <<EOF >>./kustomization.yaml
      resources:
        - mysql-deployment.yaml
        - wordpress-deployment.yaml
      EOF
      ```

## Apply and Verify
The `kustomization.yaml` contains all the resources for deploying a WordPress site and a 
MySQL database. You can apply the directory by
```shell
kubectl apply -k ./
```

Now you can verify that all objects exist.

1. Verify that the Secret exists by running the following command:

      ```shell
      kubectl get secrets
      ```

      The response should be like this:

      ```shell
      NAME                    TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
      mysql-pass-c57bb4t7mf   Opaque                                1      9s
      ```

2. Verify that a PersistentVolume got dynamically provisioned.
 
      ```shell
      kubectl get pvc
      ```
      
      {{< note >}}
      It can take up to a few minutes for the PVs to be provisioned and bound.
      {{< /note >}}

      The response should be like this:

      ```shell
      NAME             STATUS    VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS       AGE
      mysql-pv-claim   Bound     pvc-8cbd7b2e-4044-11e9-b2bb-42010a800002   20Gi       RWO            standard           77s
      wp-pv-claim      Bound     pvc-8cd0df54-4044-11e9-b2bb-42010a800002   20Gi       RWO            standard           77s
      ```

3. Verify that the Pod is running by running the following command:

      ```shell
      kubectl get pods
      ```

      {{< note >}}
      It can take up to a few minutes for the Pod's Status to be `RUNNING`.
      {{< /note >}}

      The response should be like this:

      ```
      NAME                               READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
      wordpress-mysql-1894417608-x5dzt   1/1       Running   0          40s
      ```

4. Verify that the Service is running by running the following command:

      ```shell
      kubectl get services wordpress
      ```

      The response should be like this:

      ```
      NAME        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
      wordpress   ClusterIP   10.0.0.89    <pending>     80:32406/TCP   4m
      ```

      {{< note >}}
      Minikube can only expose Services through `NodePort`. The EXTERNAL-IP is always pending.
      {{< /note >}}

5. Run the following command to get the IP Address for the WordPress Service:

      ```shell
      minikube service wordpress --url
      ```

      The response should be like this:

      ```
      http://1.2.3.4:32406
      ```

6. Copy the IP address, and load the page in your browser to view your site.

   You should see the WordPress set up page similar to the following screenshot.

   ![wordpress-init](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/examples/master/mysql-wordpress-pd/WordPress.png)

{{< warning >}}
Do not leave your WordPress installation on this page. If another user finds it, they can set up a website on your instance and use it to serve malicious content. <br/><br/>Either install WordPress by creating a username and password or delete your instance.
{{< /warning >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture cleanup %}}

1. Run the following command to delete your Secret, Deployments, Services and PersistentVolumeClaims:

      ```shell
      kubectl delete -k ./
      ```

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}

* Learn more about [Introspection and Debugging](/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-application-introspection/)
* Learn more about [Jobs](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/jobs-run-to-completion/)
* Learn more about [Port Forwarding](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
* Learn how to [Get a Shell to a Container](/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/get-shell-running-container/)

{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

add describe about WordPress deploy yml (#15003)
* add desc about wp deploy.yml

* make corrections

* Update mysql-wordpress-persistent-volume.md

content/en/docs/tutorials/stateful-application/mysql-wordpress-persistent-volume.md, after:

---
title: "Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes"
reviewers:
- ahmetb
content_template: templates/tutorial
weight: 20
card: 
  name: tutorials
  weight: 40
  title: "Stateful Example: Wordpress with Persistent Volumes"
---

{{% capture overview %}}
This tutorial shows you how to deploy a WordPress site and a MySQL database using Minikube. Both applications use PersistentVolumes and PersistentVolumeClaims to store data. 

A [PersistentVolume](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) (PV) is a piece of storage in the cluster that has been manually provisioned by an administrator, or dynamically provisioned by Kubernetes using a [StorageClass](/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes).  A [PersistentVolumeClaim](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#persistentvolumeclaims) (PVC) is a request for storage by a user that can be fulfilled by a PV. PersistentVolumes and PersistentVolumeClaims are independent from Pod lifecycles and preserve data through restarting, rescheduling, and even deleting Pods.

{{< warning >}}
This deployment is not suitable for production use cases, as it uses single instance WordPress and MySQL Pods. Consider using [WordPress Helm Chart](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/wordpress) to deploy WordPress in production.
{{< /warning >}}

{{< note >}}
The files provided in this tutorial are using GA Deployment APIs and are specific to kubernetes version 1.9 and later. If you wish to use this tutorial with an earlier version of Kubernetes, please update the API version appropriately, or reference earlier versions of this tutorial.
{{< /note >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture objectives %}}
* Create PersistentVolumeClaims and PersistentVolumes
* Create a `kustomization.yaml` with
  * a Secret generator
  * MySQL resource configs
  * WordPress resource configs
* Apply the kustomization directory by `kubectl apply -k ./`
* Clean up

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}
The example shown on this page works with `kubectl` 1.14 and above.

Download the following configuration files:

1. [mysql-deployment.yaml](/examples/application/wordpress/mysql-deployment.yaml)

1. [wordpress-deployment.yaml](/examples/application/wordpress/wordpress-deployment.yaml)

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture lessoncontent %}} 

## Create PersistentVolumeClaims and PersistentVolumes

MySQL and Wordpress each require a PersistentVolume to store data.  Their PersistentVolumeClaims will be created at the deployment step.

Many cluster environments have a default StorageClass installed.  When a StorageClass is not specified in the PersistentVolumeClaim, the cluster's default StorageClass is used instead.

When a PersistentVolumeClaim is created, a PersistentVolume is dynamically provisioned based on the StorageClass configuration.

{{< warning >}}
In local clusters, the default StorageClass uses the `hostPath` provisioner.  `hostPath` volumes are only suitable for development and testing. With `hostPath` volumes, your data lives in `/tmp` on the node the Pod is scheduled onto and does not move between nodes. If a Pod dies and gets scheduled to another node in the cluster, or the node is rebooted, the data is lost.
{{< /warning >}}

{{< note >}}
If you are bringing up a cluster that needs to use the `hostPath` provisioner, the `--enable-hostpath-provisioner` flag must be set in the `controller-manager` component.
{{< /note >}}

{{< note >}}
If you have a Kubernetes cluster running on Google Kubernetes Engine, please follow [this guide](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/tutorials/persistent-disk).
{{< /note >}}

## Create a kustomization.yaml

### Add a Secret generator
A [Secret](/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) is an object that stores a piece of sensitive data like a password or key. Since 1.14, `kubectl` supports the management of Kubernetes objects using a kustomization file. You can create a Secret by generators in `kustomization.yaml`.

Add a Secret generator in `kustomization.yaml` from the following command. You will need to replace `YOUR_PASSWORD` with the password you want to use.

```shell
cat <<EOF >./kustomization.yaml
secretGenerator:
- name: mysql-pass
  literals:
  - password=YOUR_PASSWORD
EOF
```

## Add resource configs for MySQL and WordPress

The following manifest describes a single-instance MySQL Deployment. The MySQL container mounts the PersistentVolume at /var/lib/mysql. The `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD` environment variable sets the database password from the Secret. 

{{< codenew file="application/wordpress/mysql-deployment.yaml" >}}

The following manifest describes a single-instance WordPress Deployment. The WordPress container mounts the
PersistentVolume at `/var/www/html` for website data files. The `WORDPRESS_DB_HOST` environment variable sets
the name of the MySQL Service defined above, and WordPress will access the database by Service. The
`WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD` environment variable sets the database password from the Secret kustomize generated. 

{{< codenew file="application/wordpress/wordpress-deployment.yaml" >}}

1. Download the MySQL deployment configuration file.

      ```shell
      curl -LO https://k8s.io/examples/application/wordpress/mysql-deployment.yaml
      ```
            
2. Download the WordPress configuration file.

      ```shell
      curl -LO https://k8s.io/examples/application/wordpress/wordpress-deployment.yaml
      ```
      
3. Add them to `kustomization.yaml` file.

      ```shell
      cat <<EOF >>./kustomization.yaml
      resources:
        - mysql-deployment.yaml
        - wordpress-deployment.yaml
      EOF
      ```

## Apply and Verify
The `kustomization.yaml` contains all the resources for deploying a WordPress site and a 
MySQL database. You can apply the directory by
```shell
kubectl apply -k ./
```

Now you can verify that all objects exist.

1. Verify that the Secret exists by running the following command:

      ```shell
      kubectl get secrets
      ```

      The response should be like this:

      ```shell
      NAME                    TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
      mysql-pass-c57bb4t7mf   Opaque                                1      9s
      ```

2. Verify that a PersistentVolume got dynamically provisioned.
 
      ```shell
      kubectl get pvc
      ```
      
      {{< note >}}
      It can take up to a few minutes for the PVs to be provisioned and bound.
      {{< /note >}}

      The response should be like this:

      ```shell
      NAME             STATUS    VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS       AGE
      mysql-pv-claim   Bound     pvc-8cbd7b2e-4044-11e9-b2bb-42010a800002   20Gi       RWO            standard           77s
      wp-pv-claim      Bound     pvc-8cd0df54-4044-11e9-b2bb-42010a800002   20Gi       RWO            standard           77s
      ```

3. Verify that the Pod is running by running the following command:

      ```shell
      kubectl get pods
      ```

      {{< note >}}
      It can take up to a few minutes for the Pod's Status to be `RUNNING`.
      {{< /note >}}

      The response should be like this:

      ```
      NAME                               READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
      wordpress-mysql-1894417608-x5dzt   1/1       Running   0          40s
      ```

4. Verify that the Service is running by running the following command:

      ```shell
      kubectl get services wordpress
      ```

      The response should be like this:

      ```
      NAME        TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)        AGE
      wordpress   ClusterIP   10.0.0.89    <pending>     80:32406/TCP   4m
      ```

      {{< note >}}
      Minikube can only expose Services through `NodePort`. The EXTERNAL-IP is always pending.
      {{< /note >}}

5. Run the following command to get the IP Address for the WordPress Service:

      ```shell
      minikube service wordpress --url
      ```

      The response should be like this:

      ```
      http://1.2.3.4:32406
      ```

6. Copy the IP address, and load the page in your browser to view your site.

   You should see the WordPress set up page similar to the following screenshot.

   ![wordpress-init](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/examples/master/mysql-wordpress-pd/WordPress.png)

{{< warning >}}
Do not leave your WordPress installation on this page. If another user finds it, they can set up a website on your instance and use it to serve malicious content. <br/><br/>Either install WordPress by creating a username and password or delete your instance.
{{< /warning >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture cleanup %}}

1. Run the following command to delete your Secret, Deployments, Services and PersistentVolumeClaims:

      ```shell
      kubectl delete -k ./
      ```

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}

* Learn more about [Introspection and Debugging](/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-application-introspection/)
* Learn more about [Jobs](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/jobs-run-to-completion/)
* Learn more about [Port Forwarding](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/)
* Learn how to [Get a Shell to a Container](/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/get-shell-running-container/)

{{% /capture %}}
