content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- Kashomon
- bprashanth
- madhusudancs
title: ReplicaSet
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 10
---

{{% capture overview %}}

A ReplicaSet's purpose is to maintain a stable set of replica Pods running at any given time. As such, it is often
used to guarantee the availability of a specified number of identical Pods.


{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

## How a ReplicaSet works

A ReplicaSet is defined with fields, including a selector that specifies how to identify Pods it can acquire, a number
of replicas indicating how many Pods it should be maintaining, and a pod template specifying the data of new Pods
it should create to meet the number of replicas criteria. A ReplicaSet then fulfills its purpose by creating
and deleting Pods as needed to reach the desired number. When a ReplicaSet needs to create new Pods, it uses its Pod
template.

The link a ReplicaSet has to its Pods is via the Pods' [metadata.ownerReferences](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/#owners-and-dependents)
field, which specifies what resource the current object is owned by. All Pods acquired by a ReplicaSet have their owning
ReplicaSet's identifying information within their ownerReferences field. It's through this link that the ReplicaSet
knows of the state of the Pods it is maintaining and plans accordingly.

A ReplicaSet identifies new Pods to acquire by using its selector. If there is a Pod that has no OwnerReference or the
OwnerReference is not a controller and it matches a ReplicaSet's selector, it will be immediately acquired by said
ReplicaSet.

## When to use a ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet ensures that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given
time. However, a Deployment is a higher-level concept that manages ReplicaSets and
provides declarative updates to Pods along with a lot of other useful features.
Therefore, we recommend using Deployments instead of directly using ReplicaSets, unless
you require custom update orchestration or don't require updates at all.

This actually means that you may never need to manipulate ReplicaSet objects:
use a Deployment instead, and define your application in the spec section.

## Example

{{< codenew file="controllers/frontend.yaml" >}}

Saving this manifest into `frontend.yaml` and submitting it to a Kubernetes cluster will
create the defined ReplicaSet and the Pods that it manages.

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/controllers/frontend.yaml
```

You can then get the current ReplicaSets deployed:
```shell
kubectl get rs
```

And see the frontend one you created:
```shell
NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
frontend   3         3         3       6s
```

You can also check on the state of the replicaset:
```shell
kubectl describe rs/frontend
```

And you will see output similar to:
```shell
Name:		frontend
Namespace:	default
Selector:	tier=frontend,tier in (frontend)
Labels:		app=guestbook
		tier=frontend
Annotations:	<none>
Replicas:	3 current / 3 desired
Pods Status:	3 Running / 0 Waiting / 0 Succeeded / 0 Failed
Pod Template:
  Labels:       app=guestbook
                tier=frontend
  Containers:
   php-redis:
    Image:      gcr.io/google_samples/gb-frontend:v3
    Port:       80/TCP
    Requests:
      cpu:      100m
      memory:   100Mi
    Environment:
      GET_HOSTS_FROM:   dns
    Mounts:             <none>
  Volumes:              <none>
Events:
  FirstSeen    LastSeen    Count    From                SubobjectPath    Type        Reason            Message
  ---------    --------    -----    ----                -------------    --------    ------            -------
  1m           1m          1        {replicaset-controller }             Normal      SuccessfulCreate  Created pod: frontend-qhloh
  1m           1m          1        {replicaset-controller }             Normal      SuccessfulCreate  Created pod: frontend-dnjpy
  1m           1m          1        {replicaset-controller }             Normal      SuccessfulCreate  Created pod: frontend-9si5l
```

And lastly you can check for the Pods brought up:
```shell
kubectl get Pods
```

You should see Pod information similar to:
```shell
NAME             READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-9si5l   1/1       Running   0          1m
frontend-dnjpy   1/1       Running   0          1m
frontend-qhloh   1/1       Running   0          1m
```

You can also verify that the owner reference of these pods is set to the frontend ReplicaSet.
To do this, get the yaml of one of the Pods running:
```shell
kubectl get pods frontend-9si5l -o yaml
```

The output will look similar to this, with the frontend ReplicaSet's info set in the metadata's ownerReferences field:
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2019-01-31T17:20:41Z
  generateName: frontend-
  labels:
    tier: frontend
  name: frontend-9si5l
  namespace: default
  ownerReferences:
  - apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    blockOwnerDeletion: true
    controller: true
    kind: ReplicaSet
    name: frontend
    uid: 892a2330-257c-11e9-aecd-025000000001
...
```

## Non-Template Pod acquisitions

While you can create bare Pods with no problems, it is strongly recommended to make sure that the bare Pods do not have
labels which match the selector of one of your ReplicaSets. The reason for this is because a ReplicaSet is not limited
to owning Pods specified by its template-- it can acquire other Pods in the manner specified in the previous sections.

Take the previous frontend ReplicaSet example, and the Pods specified in the  following manifest:

{{< codenew file="pods/pod-rs.yaml" >}}

As those Pods do not have a Controller (or any object) as their owner reference and match the selector of the frontend
ReplicaSet, they will immediately be acquired by it.

Suppose you create the Pods after the frontend ReplicaSet has been deployed and has set up its initial Pod replicas to
fulfill its replica count requirement:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/pods/pod-rs.yaml
```

The new Pods will be acquired by the ReplicaSet, and then immediately terminated as the ReplicaSet would be over
its desired count.

Fetching the Pods:
```shell
kubectl get Pods
```

The output shows that the new Pods are either already terminated, or in the process of being terminated:
```shell
NAME             READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-9si5l   1/1     Running       0          1m
frontend-dnjpy   1/1     Running       0          1m
frontend-qhloh   1/1     Running       0          1m
pod2             0/1     Terminating   0          4s
```

If you create the Pods first:
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/pods/pod-rs.yaml
```

And then create the ReplicaSet however:
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/controllers/frontend.yaml
```

You shall see that the ReplicaSet has acquired the Pods and has only created new ones according to its spec until the
number of its new Pods and the original matches its desired count. As fetching the Pods:
```shell
kubectl get Pods
```

Will reveal in its output:
```shell
NAME             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-pxj4r   1/1     Running   0          5s
pod1             1/1     Running   0          13s
pod2             1/1     Running   0          13s
```

In this manner, a ReplicaSet can own a non-homogenous set of Pods

## Writing a ReplicaSet manifest

As with all other Kubernetes API objects, a ReplicaSet needs the `apiVersion`, `kind`, and `metadata` fields.
For ReplicaSets, the kind is always just ReplicaSet.
In Kubernetes 1.9 the API version `apps/v1` on the ReplicaSet kind is the current version and is enabled by default. The API version `apps/v1beta2` is deprecated.
Refer to the first lines of the `frontend.yaml` example for guidance.

A ReplicaSet also needs a [`.spec` section](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status).

### Pod Template

The `.spec.template` is a [pod template](/docs/concepts/workloads/Pods/pod-overview/#pod-templates) which is also
required to have labels in place. In our `frontend.yaml` example we had one label: `tier: frontend`.
Be careful not to overlap with the selectors of other controllers, lest they try to adopt this Pod.

For the template's [restart policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/Pods/pod-lifecycle/#restart-policy) field,
`.spec.template.spec.restartPolicy`, the only allowed value is `Always`, which is the default.

### Pod Selector

The `.spec.selector` field is a [label selector](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/). As discussed
[earlier](#how-a-replicaset-works) these are the labels used to identify potential Pods to acquire. In our
`frontend.yaml` example, the selector was:
```shell
matchLabels:
	tier: frontend
```

In the ReplicaSet, `.spec.template.metadata.labels` must match `spec.selector`, or it will
be rejected by the API.

{{< note >}}
For 2 ReplicaSets specifying the same `.spec.selector` but different `.spec.template.metadata.labels` and `.spec.template.spec` fields, each ReplicaSet ignores the Pods created by the other ReplicaSet.
{{< /note >}}

### Replicas

You can specify how many Pods should run concurrently by setting `.spec.replicas`. The ReplicaSet will create/delete
its Pods to match this number.

If you do not specify `.spec.replicas`, then it defaults to 1.

## Working with ReplicaSets

### Deleting a ReplicaSet and its Pods

To delete a ReplicaSet and all of its Pods, use [`kubectl delete`](/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#delete). The [Garbage collector](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/) automatically deletes all of the dependent Pods by default.

When using the REST API or the `client-go` library, you must set `propagationPolicy` to `Background` or `Foreground` in
the -d option.
For example:
```shell
kubectl proxy --port=8080
curl -X DELETE  'localhost:8080/apis/extensions/v1beta1/namespaces/default/replicasets/frontend' \
> -d '{"kind":"DeleteOptions","apiVersion":"v1","propagationPolicy":"Foreground"}' \
> -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

### Deleting just a ReplicaSet

You can delete a ReplicaSet without affecting any of its Pods using [`kubectl delete`](/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#delete) with the `--cascade=false` option.
When using the REST API or the `client-go` library, you must set `propagationPolicy` to `Orphan`.
For example:
```shell
kubectl proxy --port=8080
curl -X DELETE  'localhost:8080/apis/extensions/v1beta1/namespaces/default/replicasets/frontend' \
> -d '{"kind":"DeleteOptions","apiVersion":"v1","propagationPolicy":"Orphan"}' \
> -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

Once the original is deleted, you can create a new ReplicaSet to replace it.  As long
as the old and new `.spec.selector` are the same, then the new one will adopt the old Pods.
However, it will not make any effort to make existing Pods match a new, different pod template.
To update Pods to a new spec in a controlled way, use a [rolling update](#rolling-updates).

### Isolating Pods from a ReplicaSet

You can remove Pods from a ReplicaSet by changing their labels. This technique may be used to remove Pods
from service for debugging, data recovery, etc. Pods that are removed in this way will be replaced automatically (
assuming that the number of replicas is not also changed).

### Scaling a ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet can be easily scaled up or down by simply updating the `.spec.replicas` field. The ReplicaSet controller
ensures that a desired number of Pods with a matching label selector are available and operational.

### ReplicaSet as a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Target

A ReplicaSet can also be a target for
[Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPA)](/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/). That is,
a ReplicaSet can be auto-scaled by an HPA. Here is an example HPA targeting
the ReplicaSet we created in the previous example.

{{< codenew file="controllers/hpa-rs.yaml" >}}

Saving this manifest into `hpa-rs.yaml` and submitting it to a Kubernetes cluster should
create the defined HPA that autoscales the target ReplicaSet depending on the CPU usage
of the replicated Pods.

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/controllers/hpa-rs.yaml
```

Alternatively, you can use the `kubectl autoscale` command to accomplish the same
(and it's easier!)

```shell
kubectl autoscale rs frontend --max=10
```

## Alternatives to ReplicaSet

### Deployment (recommended)

[`Deployment`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) is an object which can own ReplicaSets and update
them and their Pods via declarative, server-side rolling updates.
While ReplicaSets can be used independently, today they're  mainly used by Deployments as a mechanism to orchestrate Pod
creation, deletion and updates. When you use Deployments you don’t have to worry about managing the ReplicaSets that
they create. Deployments own and manage their ReplicaSets.
As such, it is recommended to use Deployments when you want ReplicaSets.

### Bare Pods

Unlike the case where a user directly created Pods, a ReplicaSet replaces Pods that are deleted or terminated for any reason, such as in the case of node failure or disruptive node maintenance, such as a kernel upgrade. For this reason, we recommend that you use a ReplicaSet even if your application requires only a single Pod. Think of it similarly to a process supervisor, only it supervises multiple Pods across multiple nodes instead of individual processes on a single node. A ReplicaSet delegates local container restarts to some agent on the node (for example, Kubelet or Docker).

### Job

Use a [`Job`](/docs/concepts/jobs/run-to-completion-finite-workloads/) instead of a ReplicaSet for Pods that are expected to terminate on their own
(that is, batch jobs).

### DaemonSet

Use a [`DaemonSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) instead of a ReplicaSet for Pods that provide a
machine-level function, such as machine monitoring or machine logging.  These Pods have a lifetime that is tied
to a machine lifetime: the Pod needs to be running on the machine before other Pods start, and are
safe to terminate when the machine is otherwise ready to be rebooted/shutdown.

### ReplicationController
ReplicaSets are the successors to [_ReplicationControllers_](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicationcontroller/).
The two serve the same purpose, and behave similarly, except that a ReplicationController does not support set-based
selector requirements as described in the [labels user guide](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#label-selectors).
As such, ReplicaSets are preferred over ReplicationControllers

{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

Rs rollingupdate (#14462)
* Redirect to Deployment docs

* Redirect to Deployment docs

* change using to use

* typo

* fix extra file

* line wrap Deployment

content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- Kashomon
- bprashanth
- madhusudancs
title: ReplicaSet
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 10
---

{{% capture overview %}}

A ReplicaSet's purpose is to maintain a stable set of replica Pods running at any given time. As such, it is often
used to guarantee the availability of a specified number of identical Pods.


{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

## How a ReplicaSet works

A ReplicaSet is defined with fields, including a selector that specifies how to identify Pods it can acquire, a number
of replicas indicating how many Pods it should be maintaining, and a pod template specifying the data of new Pods
it should create to meet the number of replicas criteria. A ReplicaSet then fulfills its purpose by creating
and deleting Pods as needed to reach the desired number. When a ReplicaSet needs to create new Pods, it uses its Pod
template.

The link a ReplicaSet has to its Pods is via the Pods' [metadata.ownerReferences](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/#owners-and-dependents)
field, which specifies what resource the current object is owned by. All Pods acquired by a ReplicaSet have their owning
ReplicaSet's identifying information within their ownerReferences field. It's through this link that the ReplicaSet
knows of the state of the Pods it is maintaining and plans accordingly.

A ReplicaSet identifies new Pods to acquire by using its selector. If there is a Pod that has no OwnerReference or the
OwnerReference is not a controller and it matches a ReplicaSet's selector, it will be immediately acquired by said
ReplicaSet.

## When to use a ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet ensures that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given
time. However, a Deployment is a higher-level concept that manages ReplicaSets and
provides declarative updates to Pods along with a lot of other useful features.
Therefore, we recommend using Deployments instead of directly using ReplicaSets, unless
you require custom update orchestration or don't require updates at all.

This actually means that you may never need to manipulate ReplicaSet objects:
use a Deployment instead, and define your application in the spec section.

## Example

{{< codenew file="controllers/frontend.yaml" >}}

Saving this manifest into `frontend.yaml` and submitting it to a Kubernetes cluster will
create the defined ReplicaSet and the Pods that it manages.

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/controllers/frontend.yaml
```

You can then get the current ReplicaSets deployed:
```shell
kubectl get rs
```

And see the frontend one you created:
```shell
NAME       DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
frontend   3         3         3       6s
```

You can also check on the state of the replicaset:
```shell
kubectl describe rs/frontend
```

And you will see output similar to:
```shell
Name:		frontend
Namespace:	default
Selector:	tier=frontend,tier in (frontend)
Labels:		app=guestbook
		tier=frontend
Annotations:	<none>
Replicas:	3 current / 3 desired
Pods Status:	3 Running / 0 Waiting / 0 Succeeded / 0 Failed
Pod Template:
  Labels:       app=guestbook
                tier=frontend
  Containers:
   php-redis:
    Image:      gcr.io/google_samples/gb-frontend:v3
    Port:       80/TCP
    Requests:
      cpu:      100m
      memory:   100Mi
    Environment:
      GET_HOSTS_FROM:   dns
    Mounts:             <none>
  Volumes:              <none>
Events:
  FirstSeen    LastSeen    Count    From                SubobjectPath    Type        Reason            Message
  ---------    --------    -----    ----                -------------    --------    ------            -------
  1m           1m          1        {replicaset-controller }             Normal      SuccessfulCreate  Created pod: frontend-qhloh
  1m           1m          1        {replicaset-controller }             Normal      SuccessfulCreate  Created pod: frontend-dnjpy
  1m           1m          1        {replicaset-controller }             Normal      SuccessfulCreate  Created pod: frontend-9si5l
```

And lastly you can check for the Pods brought up:
```shell
kubectl get Pods
```

You should see Pod information similar to:
```shell
NAME             READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-9si5l   1/1       Running   0          1m
frontend-dnjpy   1/1       Running   0          1m
frontend-qhloh   1/1       Running   0          1m
```

You can also verify that the owner reference of these pods is set to the frontend ReplicaSet.
To do this, get the yaml of one of the Pods running:
```shell
kubectl get pods frontend-9si5l -o yaml
```

The output will look similar to this, with the frontend ReplicaSet's info set in the metadata's ownerReferences field:
```shell
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: 2019-01-31T17:20:41Z
  generateName: frontend-
  labels:
    tier: frontend
  name: frontend-9si5l
  namespace: default
  ownerReferences:
  - apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    blockOwnerDeletion: true
    controller: true
    kind: ReplicaSet
    name: frontend
    uid: 892a2330-257c-11e9-aecd-025000000001
...
```

## Non-Template Pod acquisitions

While you can create bare Pods with no problems, it is strongly recommended to make sure that the bare Pods do not have
labels which match the selector of one of your ReplicaSets. The reason for this is because a ReplicaSet is not limited
to owning Pods specified by its template-- it can acquire other Pods in the manner specified in the previous sections.

Take the previous frontend ReplicaSet example, and the Pods specified in the  following manifest:

{{< codenew file="pods/pod-rs.yaml" >}}

As those Pods do not have a Controller (or any object) as their owner reference and match the selector of the frontend
ReplicaSet, they will immediately be acquired by it.

Suppose you create the Pods after the frontend ReplicaSet has been deployed and has set up its initial Pod replicas to
fulfill its replica count requirement:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/pods/pod-rs.yaml
```

The new Pods will be acquired by the ReplicaSet, and then immediately terminated as the ReplicaSet would be over
its desired count.

Fetching the Pods:
```shell
kubectl get Pods
```

The output shows that the new Pods are either already terminated, or in the process of being terminated:
```shell
NAME             READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-9si5l   1/1     Running       0          1m
frontend-dnjpy   1/1     Running       0          1m
frontend-qhloh   1/1     Running       0          1m
pod2             0/1     Terminating   0          4s
```

If you create the Pods first:
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/pods/pod-rs.yaml
```

And then create the ReplicaSet however:
```shell
kubectl apply -f https://kubernetes.io/examples/controllers/frontend.yaml
```

You shall see that the ReplicaSet has acquired the Pods and has only created new ones according to its spec until the
number of its new Pods and the original matches its desired count. As fetching the Pods:
```shell
kubectl get Pods
```

Will reveal in its output:
```shell
NAME             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-pxj4r   1/1     Running   0          5s
pod1             1/1     Running   0          13s
pod2             1/1     Running   0          13s
```

In this manner, a ReplicaSet can own a non-homogenous set of Pods

## Writing a ReplicaSet manifest

As with all other Kubernetes API objects, a ReplicaSet needs the `apiVersion`, `kind`, and `metadata` fields.
For ReplicaSets, the kind is always just ReplicaSet.
In Kubernetes 1.9 the API version `apps/v1` on the ReplicaSet kind is the current version and is enabled by default. The API version `apps/v1beta2` is deprecated.
Refer to the first lines of the `frontend.yaml` example for guidance.

A ReplicaSet also needs a [`.spec` section](https://git.k8s.io/community/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#spec-and-status).

### Pod Template

The `.spec.template` is a [pod template](/docs/concepts/workloads/Pods/pod-overview/#pod-templates) which is also
required to have labels in place. In our `frontend.yaml` example we had one label: `tier: frontend`.
Be careful not to overlap with the selectors of other controllers, lest they try to adopt this Pod.

For the template's [restart policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/Pods/pod-lifecycle/#restart-policy) field,
`.spec.template.spec.restartPolicy`, the only allowed value is `Always`, which is the default.

### Pod Selector

The `.spec.selector` field is a [label selector](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/). As discussed
[earlier](#how-a-replicaset-works) these are the labels used to identify potential Pods to acquire. In our
`frontend.yaml` example, the selector was:
```shell
matchLabels:
	tier: frontend
```

In the ReplicaSet, `.spec.template.metadata.labels` must match `spec.selector`, or it will
be rejected by the API.

{{< note >}}
For 2 ReplicaSets specifying the same `.spec.selector` but different `.spec.template.metadata.labels` and `.spec.template.spec` fields, each ReplicaSet ignores the Pods created by the other ReplicaSet.
{{< /note >}}

### Replicas

You can specify how many Pods should run concurrently by setting `.spec.replicas`. The ReplicaSet will create/delete
its Pods to match this number.

If you do not specify `.spec.replicas`, then it defaults to 1.

## Working with ReplicaSets

### Deleting a ReplicaSet and its Pods

To delete a ReplicaSet and all of its Pods, use [`kubectl delete`](/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#delete). The [Garbage collector](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/) automatically deletes all of the dependent Pods by default.

When using the REST API or the `client-go` library, you must set `propagationPolicy` to `Background` or `Foreground` in
the -d option.
For example:
```shell
kubectl proxy --port=8080
curl -X DELETE  'localhost:8080/apis/extensions/v1beta1/namespaces/default/replicasets/frontend' \
> -d '{"kind":"DeleteOptions","apiVersion":"v1","propagationPolicy":"Foreground"}' \
> -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

### Deleting just a ReplicaSet

You can delete a ReplicaSet without affecting any of its Pods using [`kubectl delete`](/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#delete) with the `--cascade=false` option.
When using the REST API or the `client-go` library, you must set `propagationPolicy` to `Orphan`.
For example:
```shell
kubectl proxy --port=8080
curl -X DELETE  'localhost:8080/apis/extensions/v1beta1/namespaces/default/replicasets/frontend' \
> -d '{"kind":"DeleteOptions","apiVersion":"v1","propagationPolicy":"Orphan"}' \
> -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```

Once the original is deleted, you can create a new ReplicaSet to replace it.  As long
as the old and new `.spec.selector` are the same, then the new one will adopt the old Pods.
However, it will not make any effort to make existing Pods match a new, different pod template.
To update Pods to a new spec in a controlled way, use a 
[Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/#creating-a-deployment), as ReplicaSets do not support a rolling update directly.

### Isolating Pods from a ReplicaSet

You can remove Pods from a ReplicaSet by changing their labels. This technique may be used to remove Pods
from service for debugging, data recovery, etc. Pods that are removed in this way will be replaced automatically (
assuming that the number of replicas is not also changed).

### Scaling a ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet can be easily scaled up or down by simply updating the `.spec.replicas` field. The ReplicaSet controller
ensures that a desired number of Pods with a matching label selector are available and operational.

### ReplicaSet as a Horizontal Pod Autoscaler Target

A ReplicaSet can also be a target for
[Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPA)](/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/). That is,
a ReplicaSet can be auto-scaled by an HPA. Here is an example HPA targeting
the ReplicaSet we created in the previous example.

{{< codenew file="controllers/hpa-rs.yaml" >}}

Saving this manifest into `hpa-rs.yaml` and submitting it to a Kubernetes cluster should
create the defined HPA that autoscales the target ReplicaSet depending on the CPU usage
of the replicated Pods.

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/controllers/hpa-rs.yaml
```

Alternatively, you can use the `kubectl autoscale` command to accomplish the same
(and it's easier!)

```shell
kubectl autoscale rs frontend --max=10
```

## Alternatives to ReplicaSet

### Deployment (recommended)

[`Deployment`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) is an object which can own ReplicaSets and update
them and their Pods via declarative, server-side rolling updates.
While ReplicaSets can be used independently, today they're  mainly used by Deployments as a mechanism to orchestrate Pod
creation, deletion and updates. When you use Deployments you don’t have to worry about managing the ReplicaSets that
they create. Deployments own and manage their ReplicaSets.
As such, it is recommended to use Deployments when you want ReplicaSets.

### Bare Pods

Unlike the case where a user directly created Pods, a ReplicaSet replaces Pods that are deleted or terminated for any reason, such as in the case of node failure or disruptive node maintenance, such as a kernel upgrade. For this reason, we recommend that you use a ReplicaSet even if your application requires only a single Pod. Think of it similarly to a process supervisor, only it supervises multiple Pods across multiple nodes instead of individual processes on a single node. A ReplicaSet delegates local container restarts to some agent on the node (for example, Kubelet or Docker).

### Job

Use a [`Job`](/docs/concepts/jobs/run-to-completion-finite-workloads/) instead of a ReplicaSet for Pods that are expected to terminate on their own
(that is, batch jobs).

### DaemonSet

Use a [`DaemonSet`](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) instead of a ReplicaSet for Pods that provide a
machine-level function, such as machine monitoring or machine logging.  These Pods have a lifetime that is tied
to a machine lifetime: the Pod needs to be running on the machine before other Pods start, and are
safe to terminate when the machine is otherwise ready to be rebooted/shutdown.

### ReplicationController
ReplicaSets are the successors to [_ReplicationControllers_](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicationcontroller/).
The two serve the same purpose, and behave similarly, except that a ReplicationController does not support set-based
selector requirements as described in the [labels user guide](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#label-selectors).
As such, ReplicaSets are preferred over ReplicationControllers

{{% /capture %}}
