content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- enisoc
- erictune
- foxish
- janetkuo
- kow3ns
- smarterclayton
title: StatefulSets
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 40
---

{{% capture overview %}}

StatefulSet is the workload API object used to manage stateful applications.

{{< note >}}
StatefulSets are stable (GA) in 1.9.
{{< /note >}}

{{< glossary_definition term_id="statefulset" length="all" >}}
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

## Using StatefulSets

StatefulSets are valuable for applications that require one or more of the
following.

* Stable, unique network identifiers.
* Stable, persistent storage.
* Ordered, graceful deployment and scaling.
* Ordered, automated rolling updates.

In the above, stable is synonymous with persistence across Pod (re)scheduling.
If an application doesn't require any stable identifiers or ordered deployment,
deletion, or scaling, you should deploy your application with a controller that
provides a set of stateless replicas. Controllers such as
[Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) or
[ReplicaSet](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/) may be better suited to your stateless needs.

## Limitations

* StatefulSet was a beta resource prior to 1.9 and not available in any Kubernetes release prior to 1.5.
* The storage for a given Pod must either be provisioned by a [PersistentVolume Provisioner](https://github.com/kubernetes/examples/tree/{{< param "githubbranch" >}}/staging/persistent-volume-provisioning/README.md) based on the requested `storage class`, or pre-provisioned by an admin.
* Deleting and/or scaling a StatefulSet down will *not* delete the volumes associated with the StatefulSet. This is done to ensure data safety, which is generally more valuable than an automatic purge of all related StatefulSet resources.
* StatefulSets currently require a [Headless Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services) to be responsible for the network identity of the Pods. You are responsible for creating this Service.
* StatefulSets do not provide any guarantees on the termination of pods when a StatefulSet is deleted. To achieve ordered and graceful termination of the pods in the StatefulSet, it is possible to scale the StatefulSet down to 0 prior to deletion.
* When using [Rolling Updates](#rolling-updates) with the default
  [Pod Management Policy](#pod-management-policies) (`OrderedReady`),
  it's possible to get into a broken state that requires
  [manual intervention to repair](#forced-rollback).

## Components
The example below demonstrates the components of a StatefulSet.

* A Headless Service, named nginx, is used to control the network domain.
* The StatefulSet, named web, has a Spec that indicates that 3 replicas of the nginx container will be launched in unique Pods.
* The volumeClaimTemplates will provide stable storage using [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) provisioned by a PersistentVolume Provisioner.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    name: web
  clusterIP: None
  selector:
    app: nginx
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: StatefulSet
metadata:
  name: web
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx # has to match .spec.template.metadata.labels
  serviceName: "nginx"
  replicas: 3 # by default is 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx # has to match .spec.selector.matchLabels
    spec:
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 10
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: k8s.gcr.io/nginx-slim:0.8
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          name: web
        volumeMounts:
        - name: www
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html
  volumeClaimTemplates:
  - metadata:
      name: www
    spec:
      accessModes: [ "ReadWriteOnce" ]
      storageClassName: "my-storage-class"
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 1Gi
```

## Pod Selector
You must set the `.spec.selector` field of a StatefulSet to match the labels of its `.spec.template.metadata.labels`. Prior to Kubernetes 1.8, the `.spec.selector` field was defaulted when omitted. In 1.8 and later versions, failing to specify a matching Pod Selector will result in a validation error during StatefulSet creation.

## Pod Identity
StatefulSet Pods have a unique identity that is comprised of an ordinal, a
stable network identity, and stable storage. The identity sticks to the Pod,
regardless of which node it's (re)scheduled on.

### Ordinal Index

For a StatefulSet with N replicas, each Pod in the StatefulSet will be
assigned an integer ordinal, from 0 up through N-1, that is unique over the Set.

### Stable Network ID

Each Pod in a StatefulSet derives its hostname from the name of the StatefulSet
and the ordinal of the Pod. The pattern for the constructed hostname
is `$(statefulset name)-$(ordinal)`. The example above will create three Pods
named `web-0,web-1,web-2`.
A StatefulSet can use a [Headless Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)
to control the domain of its Pods. The domain managed by this Service takes the form:
`$(service name).$(namespace).svc.cluster.local`, where "cluster.local" is the
cluster domain.
As each Pod is created, it gets a matching DNS subdomain, taking the form:
`$(podname).$(governing service domain)`, where the governing service is defined
by the `serviceName` field on the StatefulSet.

As mentioned in the [limitations](#limitations) section, you are responsible for
creating the [Headless Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)
responsible for the network identity of the pods.

Here are some examples of choices for Cluster Domain, Service name,
StatefulSet name, and how that affects the DNS names for the StatefulSet's Pods.

Cluster Domain | Service (ns/name) | StatefulSet (ns/name)  | StatefulSet Domain  | Pod DNS | Pod Hostname |
-------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | ------- | ------------ |
 cluster.local | default/nginx     | default/web       | nginx.default.svc.cluster.local | web-{0..N-1}.nginx.default.svc.cluster.local | web-{0..N-1} |
 cluster.local | foo/nginx         | foo/web           | nginx.foo.svc.cluster.local     | web-{0..N-1}.nginx.foo.svc.cluster.local     | web-{0..N-1} |
 kube.local    | foo/nginx         | foo/web           | nginx.foo.svc.kube.local        | web-{0..N-1}.nginx.foo.svc.kube.local        | web-{0..N-1} |

{{< note >}}
Cluster Domain will be set to `cluster.local` unless
[otherwise configured](/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#how-it-works).
{{< /note >}}

### Stable Storage

Kubernetes creates one [PersistentVolume](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) for each
VolumeClaimTemplate. In the nginx example above, each Pod will receive a single PersistentVolume
with a StorageClass of `my-storage-class` and 1 Gib of provisioned storage. If no StorageClass
is specified, then the default StorageClass will be used. When a Pod is (re)scheduled
onto a node, its `volumeMounts` mount the PersistentVolumes associated with its
PersistentVolume Claims. Note that, the PersistentVolumes associated with the
Pods' PersistentVolume Claims are not deleted when the Pods, or StatefulSet are deleted.
This must be done manually.

### Pod Name Label

When the StatefulSet controller creates a Pod, it adds a label, `statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name`, 
that is set to the name of the Pod. This label allows you to attach a Service to a specific Pod in 
the StatefulSet.

## Deployment and Scaling Guarantees

* For a StatefulSet with N replicas, when Pods are being deployed, they are created sequentially, in order from {0..N-1}.
* When Pods are being deleted, they are terminated in reverse order, from {N-1..0}.
* Before a scaling operation is applied to a Pod, all of its predecessors must be Running and Ready.
* Before a Pod is terminated, all of its successors must be completely shutdown.

The StatefulSet should not specify a `pod.Spec.TerminationGracePeriodSeconds` of 0. This practice is unsafe and strongly discouraged. For further explanation, please refer to [force deleting StatefulSet Pods](/docs/tasks/run-application/force-delete-stateful-set-pod/).

When the nginx example above is created, three Pods will be deployed in the order
web-0, web-1, web-2. web-1 will not be deployed before web-0 is
[Running and Ready](/docs/user-guide/pod-states/), and web-2 will not be deployed until
web-1 is Running and Ready. If web-0 should fail, after web-1 is Running and Ready, but before
web-2 is launched, web-2 will not be launched until web-0 is successfully relaunched and
becomes Running and Ready.

If a user were to scale the deployed example by patching the StatefulSet such that
`replicas=1`, web-2 would be terminated first. web-1 would not be terminated until web-2
is fully shutdown and deleted. If web-0 were to fail after web-2 has been terminated and
is completely shutdown, but prior to web-1's termination, web-1 would not be terminated
until web-0 is Running and Ready.

### Pod Management Policies
In Kubernetes 1.7 and later, StatefulSet allows you to relax its ordering guarantees while
preserving its uniqueness and identity guarantees via its `.spec.podManagementPolicy` field.

#### OrderedReady Pod Management

`OrderedReady` pod management is the default for StatefulSets. It implements the behavior
described [above](#deployment-and-scaling-guarantees).

#### Parallel Pod Management

`Parallel` pod management tells the StatefulSet controller to launch or
terminate all Pods in parallel, and to not wait for Pods to become Running
and Ready or completely terminated prior to launching or terminating another
Pod.

## Update Strategies

In Kubernetes 1.7 and later, StatefulSet's `.spec.updateStrategy` field allows you to configure
and disable automated rolling updates for containers, labels, resource request/limits, and
annotations for the Pods in a StatefulSet.

### On Delete

The `OnDelete` update strategy implements the legacy (1.6 and prior) behavior. When a StatefulSet's
`.spec.updateStrategy.type` is set to `OnDelete`, the StatefulSet controller will not automatically
update the Pods in a StatefulSet. Users must manually delete Pods to cause the controller to
create new Pods that reflect modifications made to a StatefulSet's `.spec.template`.

### Rolling Updates

The `RollingUpdate` update strategy implements automated, rolling update for the Pods in a
StatefulSet. It is the default strategy when `.spec.updateStrategy` is left unspecified. When a StatefulSet's `.spec.updateStrategy.type` is set to `RollingUpdate`, the
StatefulSet controller will delete and recreate each Pod in the StatefulSet. It will proceed
in the same order as Pod termination (from the largest ordinal to the smallest), updating
each Pod one at a time. It will wait until an updated Pod is Running and Ready prior to
updating its predecessor.

#### Partitions

The `RollingUpdate` update strategy can be partitioned, by specifying a
`.spec.updateStrategy.rollingUpdate.partition`. If a partition is specified, all Pods with an
ordinal that is greater than or equal to the partition will be updated when the StatefulSet's
`.spec.template` is updated. All Pods with an ordinal that is less than the partition will not
be updated, and, even if they are deleted, they will be recreated at the previous version. If a
StatefulSet's `.spec.updateStrategy.rollingUpdate.partition` is greater than its `.spec.replicas`,
updates to its `.spec.template` will not be propagated to its Pods.
In most cases you will not need to use a partition, but they are useful if you want to stage an
update, roll out a canary, or perform a phased roll out.

#### Forced Rollback

When using [Rolling Updates](#rolling-updates) with the default
[Pod Management Policy](#pod-management-policies) (`OrderedReady`),
it's possible to get into a broken state that requires manual intervention to repair.

If you update the Pod template to a configuration that never becomes Running and
Ready (for example, due to a bad binary or application-level configuration error),
StatefulSet will stop the rollout and wait.

In this state, it's not enough to revert the Pod template to a good configuration.
Due to a [known issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/67250),
StatefulSet will continue to wait for the broken Pod to become Ready
(which never happens) before it will attempt to revert it back to the working
configuration.

After reverting the template, you must also delete any Pods that StatefulSet had
already attempted to run with the bad configuration.
StatefulSet will then begin to recreate the Pods using the reverted template.

{{% /capture %}}
{{% capture whatsnext %}}

* Follow an example of [deploying a stateful application](/docs/tutorials/stateful-application/basic-stateful-set/).
* Follow an example of [deploying Cassandra with Stateful Sets](/docs/tutorials/stateful-application/cassandra/).

{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

Clarify behavior of parallel pod management policy (#14606)

content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- enisoc
- erictune
- foxish
- janetkuo
- kow3ns
- smarterclayton
title: StatefulSets
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 40
---

{{% capture overview %}}

StatefulSet is the workload API object used to manage stateful applications.

{{< note >}}
StatefulSets are stable (GA) in 1.9.
{{< /note >}}

{{< glossary_definition term_id="statefulset" length="all" >}}
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

## Using StatefulSets

StatefulSets are valuable for applications that require one or more of the
following.

* Stable, unique network identifiers.
* Stable, persistent storage.
* Ordered, graceful deployment and scaling.
* Ordered, automated rolling updates.

In the above, stable is synonymous with persistence across Pod (re)scheduling.
If an application doesn't require any stable identifiers or ordered deployment,
deletion, or scaling, you should deploy your application with a controller that
provides a set of stateless replicas. Controllers such as
[Deployment](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) or
[ReplicaSet](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/) may be better suited to your stateless needs.

## Limitations

* StatefulSet was a beta resource prior to 1.9 and not available in any Kubernetes release prior to 1.5.
* The storage for a given Pod must either be provisioned by a [PersistentVolume Provisioner](https://github.com/kubernetes/examples/tree/{{< param "githubbranch" >}}/staging/persistent-volume-provisioning/README.md) based on the requested `storage class`, or pre-provisioned by an admin.
* Deleting and/or scaling a StatefulSet down will *not* delete the volumes associated with the StatefulSet. This is done to ensure data safety, which is generally more valuable than an automatic purge of all related StatefulSet resources.
* StatefulSets currently require a [Headless Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services) to be responsible for the network identity of the Pods. You are responsible for creating this Service.
* StatefulSets do not provide any guarantees on the termination of pods when a StatefulSet is deleted. To achieve ordered and graceful termination of the pods in the StatefulSet, it is possible to scale the StatefulSet down to 0 prior to deletion.
* When using [Rolling Updates](#rolling-updates) with the default
  [Pod Management Policy](#pod-management-policies) (`OrderedReady`),
  it's possible to get into a broken state that requires
  [manual intervention to repair](#forced-rollback).

## Components
The example below demonstrates the components of a StatefulSet.

* A Headless Service, named nginx, is used to control the network domain.
* The StatefulSet, named web, has a Spec that indicates that 3 replicas of the nginx container will be launched in unique Pods.
* The volumeClaimTemplates will provide stable storage using [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) provisioned by a PersistentVolume Provisioner.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: nginx
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 80
    name: web
  clusterIP: None
  selector:
    app: nginx
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: StatefulSet
metadata:
  name: web
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx # has to match .spec.template.metadata.labels
  serviceName: "nginx"
  replicas: 3 # by default is 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx # has to match .spec.selector.matchLabels
    spec:
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 10
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: k8s.gcr.io/nginx-slim:0.8
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          name: web
        volumeMounts:
        - name: www
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html
  volumeClaimTemplates:
  - metadata:
      name: www
    spec:
      accessModes: [ "ReadWriteOnce" ]
      storageClassName: "my-storage-class"
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 1Gi
```

## Pod Selector
You must set the `.spec.selector` field of a StatefulSet to match the labels of its `.spec.template.metadata.labels`. Prior to Kubernetes 1.8, the `.spec.selector` field was defaulted when omitted. In 1.8 and later versions, failing to specify a matching Pod Selector will result in a validation error during StatefulSet creation.

## Pod Identity
StatefulSet Pods have a unique identity that is comprised of an ordinal, a
stable network identity, and stable storage. The identity sticks to the Pod,
regardless of which node it's (re)scheduled on.

### Ordinal Index

For a StatefulSet with N replicas, each Pod in the StatefulSet will be
assigned an integer ordinal, from 0 up through N-1, that is unique over the Set.

### Stable Network ID

Each Pod in a StatefulSet derives its hostname from the name of the StatefulSet
and the ordinal of the Pod. The pattern for the constructed hostname
is `$(statefulset name)-$(ordinal)`. The example above will create three Pods
named `web-0,web-1,web-2`.
A StatefulSet can use a [Headless Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)
to control the domain of its Pods. The domain managed by this Service takes the form:
`$(service name).$(namespace).svc.cluster.local`, where "cluster.local" is the
cluster domain.
As each Pod is created, it gets a matching DNS subdomain, taking the form:
`$(podname).$(governing service domain)`, where the governing service is defined
by the `serviceName` field on the StatefulSet.

As mentioned in the [limitations](#limitations) section, you are responsible for
creating the [Headless Service](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services)
responsible for the network identity of the pods.

Here are some examples of choices for Cluster Domain, Service name,
StatefulSet name, and how that affects the DNS names for the StatefulSet's Pods.

Cluster Domain | Service (ns/name) | StatefulSet (ns/name)  | StatefulSet Domain  | Pod DNS | Pod Hostname |
-------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | ------- | ------------ |
 cluster.local | default/nginx     | default/web       | nginx.default.svc.cluster.local | web-{0..N-1}.nginx.default.svc.cluster.local | web-{0..N-1} |
 cluster.local | foo/nginx         | foo/web           | nginx.foo.svc.cluster.local     | web-{0..N-1}.nginx.foo.svc.cluster.local     | web-{0..N-1} |
 kube.local    | foo/nginx         | foo/web           | nginx.foo.svc.kube.local        | web-{0..N-1}.nginx.foo.svc.kube.local        | web-{0..N-1} |

{{< note >}}
Cluster Domain will be set to `cluster.local` unless
[otherwise configured](/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#how-it-works).
{{< /note >}}

### Stable Storage

Kubernetes creates one [PersistentVolume](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) for each
VolumeClaimTemplate. In the nginx example above, each Pod will receive a single PersistentVolume
with a StorageClass of `my-storage-class` and 1 Gib of provisioned storage. If no StorageClass
is specified, then the default StorageClass will be used. When a Pod is (re)scheduled
onto a node, its `volumeMounts` mount the PersistentVolumes associated with its
PersistentVolume Claims. Note that, the PersistentVolumes associated with the
Pods' PersistentVolume Claims are not deleted when the Pods, or StatefulSet are deleted.
This must be done manually.

### Pod Name Label

When the StatefulSet controller creates a Pod, it adds a label, `statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name`, 
that is set to the name of the Pod. This label allows you to attach a Service to a specific Pod in 
the StatefulSet.

## Deployment and Scaling Guarantees

* For a StatefulSet with N replicas, when Pods are being deployed, they are created sequentially, in order from {0..N-1}.
* When Pods are being deleted, they are terminated in reverse order, from {N-1..0}.
* Before a scaling operation is applied to a Pod, all of its predecessors must be Running and Ready.
* Before a Pod is terminated, all of its successors must be completely shutdown.

The StatefulSet should not specify a `pod.Spec.TerminationGracePeriodSeconds` of 0. This practice is unsafe and strongly discouraged. For further explanation, please refer to [force deleting StatefulSet Pods](/docs/tasks/run-application/force-delete-stateful-set-pod/).

When the nginx example above is created, three Pods will be deployed in the order
web-0, web-1, web-2. web-1 will not be deployed before web-0 is
[Running and Ready](/docs/user-guide/pod-states/), and web-2 will not be deployed until
web-1 is Running and Ready. If web-0 should fail, after web-1 is Running and Ready, but before
web-2 is launched, web-2 will not be launched until web-0 is successfully relaunched and
becomes Running and Ready.

If a user were to scale the deployed example by patching the StatefulSet such that
`replicas=1`, web-2 would be terminated first. web-1 would not be terminated until web-2
is fully shutdown and deleted. If web-0 were to fail after web-2 has been terminated and
is completely shutdown, but prior to web-1's termination, web-1 would not be terminated
until web-0 is Running and Ready.

### Pod Management Policies
In Kubernetes 1.7 and later, StatefulSet allows you to relax its ordering guarantees while
preserving its uniqueness and identity guarantees via its `.spec.podManagementPolicy` field.

#### OrderedReady Pod Management

`OrderedReady` pod management is the default for StatefulSets. It implements the behavior
described [above](#deployment-and-scaling-guarantees).

#### Parallel Pod Management

`Parallel` pod management tells the StatefulSet controller to launch or
terminate all Pods in parallel, and to not wait for Pods to become Running
and Ready or completely terminated prior to launching or terminating another
Pod. This option only affects the behavior for scaling operations. Updates are not
affected.

## Update Strategies

In Kubernetes 1.7 and later, StatefulSet's `.spec.updateStrategy` field allows you to configure
and disable automated rolling updates for containers, labels, resource request/limits, and
annotations for the Pods in a StatefulSet.

### On Delete

The `OnDelete` update strategy implements the legacy (1.6 and prior) behavior. When a StatefulSet's
`.spec.updateStrategy.type` is set to `OnDelete`, the StatefulSet controller will not automatically
update the Pods in a StatefulSet. Users must manually delete Pods to cause the controller to
create new Pods that reflect modifications made to a StatefulSet's `.spec.template`.

### Rolling Updates

The `RollingUpdate` update strategy implements automated, rolling update for the Pods in a
StatefulSet. It is the default strategy when `.spec.updateStrategy` is left unspecified. When a StatefulSet's `.spec.updateStrategy.type` is set to `RollingUpdate`, the
StatefulSet controller will delete and recreate each Pod in the StatefulSet. It will proceed
in the same order as Pod termination (from the largest ordinal to the smallest), updating
each Pod one at a time. It will wait until an updated Pod is Running and Ready prior to
updating its predecessor.

#### Partitions

The `RollingUpdate` update strategy can be partitioned, by specifying a
`.spec.updateStrategy.rollingUpdate.partition`. If a partition is specified, all Pods with an
ordinal that is greater than or equal to the partition will be updated when the StatefulSet's
`.spec.template` is updated. All Pods with an ordinal that is less than the partition will not
be updated, and, even if they are deleted, they will be recreated at the previous version. If a
StatefulSet's `.spec.updateStrategy.rollingUpdate.partition` is greater than its `.spec.replicas`,
updates to its `.spec.template` will not be propagated to its Pods.
In most cases you will not need to use a partition, but they are useful if you want to stage an
update, roll out a canary, or perform a phased roll out.

#### Forced Rollback

When using [Rolling Updates](#rolling-updates) with the default
[Pod Management Policy](#pod-management-policies) (`OrderedReady`),
it's possible to get into a broken state that requires manual intervention to repair.

If you update the Pod template to a configuration that never becomes Running and
Ready (for example, due to a bad binary or application-level configuration error),
StatefulSet will stop the rollout and wait.

In this state, it's not enough to revert the Pod template to a good configuration.
Due to a [known issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/67250),
StatefulSet will continue to wait for the broken Pod to become Ready
(which never happens) before it will attempt to revert it back to the working
configuration.

After reverting the template, you must also delete any Pods that StatefulSet had
already attempted to run with the bad configuration.
StatefulSet will then begin to recreate the Pods using the reverted template.

{{% /capture %}}
{{% capture whatsnext %}}

* Follow an example of [deploying a stateful application](/docs/tutorials/stateful-application/basic-stateful-set/).
* Follow an example of [deploying Cassandra with Stateful Sets](/docs/tutorials/stateful-application/cassandra/).

{{% /capture %}}
