content/en/docs/reference/issues-security/security.md, before:

---
title: Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
aliases: [/security/]
reviewers:
- eparis
- erictune
- philips
- jessfraz
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---

{{% capture overview %}}
This page describes Kubernetes security and disclosure information.
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}
## Security Announcements

Join the [kubernetes-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-announce) group for emails about security and major API announcements.

You can also subscribe to an RSS feed of the above using [this link](https://groups.google.com/forum/feed/kubernetes-announce/msgs/rss_v2_0.xml?num=50).

## Report a Vulnerability

We’re extremely grateful for security researchers and users that report vulnerabilities to the Kubernetes Open Source Community. All reports are thoroughly investigated by a set of community volunteers.

To make a report, please email the private [security@kubernetes.io](mailto:security@kubernetes.io) list with the security details and the details expected for [all Kubernetes bug reports](https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug-report.md).

You may encrypt your email to this list using the GPG keys of the [Product Security Committee members](https://git.k8s.io/security/security-release-process.md#product-security-committee-psc). Encryption using GPG is NOT required to make a disclosure.

### When Should I Report a Vulnerability?

- You think you discovered a potential security vulnerability in Kubernetes
- You are unsure how a vulnerability affects Kubernetes
- You think you discovered a vulnerability in another project that Kubernetes depends on (e.g. docker, rkt, etcd)

### When Should I NOT Report a Vulnerability?

- You need help tuning Kubernetes components for security
- You need help applying security related updates
- Your issue is not security related

## Security Vulnerability Response

Each report is acknowledged and analyzed by Product Security Committee members within 3 working days. This will set off the [Security Release Process](https://git.k8s.io/security/security-release-process.md#disclosures).

Any vulnerability information shared with Product Security Committee stays within Kubernetes project and will not be disseminated to other projects unless it is necessary to get the issue fixed.

As the security issue moves from triage, to identified fix, to release planning we will keep the reporter updated.

## Public Disclosure Timing

A public disclosure date is negotiated by the Kubernetes Product Security Committee and the bug submitter. We prefer to fully disclose the bug as soon as possible once a user mitigation is available. It is reasonable to delay disclosure when the bug or the fix is not yet fully understood, the solution is not well-tested, or for vendor coordination. The timeframe for disclosure is from immediate (especially if it's already publicly known) to a few weeks. As a basic default, we expect report date to disclosure date to be on the order of 7 days. The Kubernetes Product Security Committee holds the final say when setting a disclosure date.
{{% /capture %}}

Commit message:

Update vuln reporting language to match reality (#14885)
We don't need to be the dispatch for all vulns, now that other projects are starting to have their own processes. But we don't want to discourage reports about stuff that isn't directly in k/k either.

Saying that we usually disclose vuln reports in 7 days is just not true. But, I think it's still good to aim for 7 days when we aren't blocked on and coordinating release of patches.

content/en/docs/reference/issues-security/security.md, after:

---
title: Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
aliases: [/security/]
reviewers:
- eparis
- erictune
- philips
- jessfraz
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---

{{% capture overview %}}
This page describes Kubernetes security and disclosure information.
{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}
## Security Announcements

Join the [kubernetes-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubernetes-announce) group for emails about security and major API announcements.

You can also subscribe to an RSS feed of the above using [this link](https://groups.google.com/forum/feed/kubernetes-announce/msgs/rss_v2_0.xml?num=50).

## Report a Vulnerability

We’re extremely grateful for security researchers and users that report vulnerabilities to the Kubernetes Open Source Community. All reports are thoroughly investigated by a set of community volunteers.

To make a report, please email the private [security@kubernetes.io](mailto:security@kubernetes.io) list with the security details and the details expected for [all Kubernetes bug reports](https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug-report.md).

You may encrypt your email to this list using the GPG keys of the [Product Security Committee members](https://git.k8s.io/security/security-release-process.md#product-security-committee-psc). Encryption using GPG is NOT required to make a disclosure.

### When Should I Report a Vulnerability?

- You think you discovered a potential security vulnerability in Kubernetes
- You are unsure how a vulnerability affects Kubernetes
- You think you discovered a vulnerability in another project that Kubernetes depends on
  - For projects with their own vulnerability reporting and disclosure process, please report it directly there


### When Should I NOT Report a Vulnerability?

- You need help tuning Kubernetes components for security
- You need help applying security related updates
- Your issue is not security related

## Security Vulnerability Response

Each report is acknowledged and analyzed by Product Security Committee members within 3 working days. This will set off the [Security Release Process](https://git.k8s.io/security/security-release-process.md#disclosures).

Any vulnerability information shared with Product Security Committee stays within Kubernetes project and will not be disseminated to other projects unless it is necessary to get the issue fixed.

As the security issue moves from triage, to identified fix, to release planning we will keep the reporter updated.

## Public Disclosure Timing

A public disclosure date is negotiated by the Kubernetes Product Security Committee and the bug submitter. We prefer to fully disclose the bug as soon as possible once a user mitigation is available. It is reasonable to delay disclosure when the bug or the fix is not yet fully understood, the solution is not well-tested, or for vendor coordination. The timeframe for disclosure is from immediate (especially if it's already publicly known) to a few weeks. For a vulnerability with a straightforward mitigation, we expect report date to disclosure date to be on the order of 7 days. The Kubernetes Product Security Committee holds the final say when setting a disclosure date.
{{% /capture %}}
