content/en/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/generated/kubeadm_join_phase_kubelet-start.md, before:


Write kubelet settings, certificates and (re)start the kubelet

### Synopsis

Write a file with KubeletConfiguration and an environment file with node specific kubelet settings, and then (re)start kubelet.

```
kubeadm join phase kubelet-start [api-server-endpoint] [flags]
```

### Options

<table style="width: 100%; table-layout: fixed;">
  <colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 10px;" />
    <col span="1" />
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--config string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Path to kubeadm config file.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--cri-socket string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Path to the CRI socket to connect. If empty kubeadm will try to auto-detect this value; use this option only if you have more than one CRI installed or if you have non-standard CRI socket.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-file string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For file-based discovery, a file or URL from which to load cluster information.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-token string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For token-based discovery, the token used to validate cluster information fetched from the API server.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-token-ca-cert-hash stringSlice</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For token-based discovery, validate that the root CA public key matches this hash (format: "&lt;type&gt;:&lt;value&gt;").</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-token-unsafe-skip-ca-verification</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For token-based discovery, allow joining without --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash pinning.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">-h, --help</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">help for kubelet-start</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--node-name string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Specify the node name.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--tls-bootstrap-token string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Specify the token used to temporarily authenticate with the Kubernetes Control Plane while joining the node.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--token string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Use this token for both discovery-token and tls-bootstrap-token when those values are not provided.</td>
    </tr>

  </tbody>
</table>



### Options inherited from parent commands

<table style="width: 100%; table-layout: fixed;">
  <colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 10px;" />
    <col span="1" />
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--rootfs string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">[EXPERIMENTAL] The path to the 'real' host root filesystem.</td>
    </tr>

  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

update generated comp. files, 1.16 (#16339)
* update generated comp. files, 1.16

* update flags

* Update kubelet.md

* table updates

content/en/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/generated/kubeadm_join_phase_kubelet-start.md, after:


### Synopsis


Write a file with KubeletConfiguration and an environment file with node specific kubelet settings, and then (re)start kubelet.

```
kubeadm join phase kubelet-start [api-server-endpoint] [flags]
```

### Options

<table style="width: 100%; table-layout: fixed;">
  <colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 10px;" />
    <col span="1" />
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--config string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Path to kubeadm config file.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--cri-socket string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Path to the CRI socket to connect. If empty kubeadm will try to auto-detect this value; use this option only if you have more than one CRI installed or if you have non-standard CRI socket.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-file string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For file-based discovery, a file or URL from which to load cluster information.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-token string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For token-based discovery, the token used to validate cluster information fetched from the API server.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-token-ca-cert-hash stringSlice</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For token-based discovery, validate that the root CA public key matches this hash (format: "&lt;type&gt;:&lt;value&gt;").</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--discovery-token-unsafe-skip-ca-verification</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">For token-based discovery, allow joining without --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash pinning.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">-h, --help</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">help for kubelet-start</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--node-name string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Specify the node name.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--tls-bootstrap-token string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Specify the token used to temporarily authenticate with the Kubernetes Control Plane while joining the node.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--token string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">Use this token for both discovery-token and tls-bootstrap-token when those values are not provided.</td>
    </tr>

  </tbody>
</table>



### Options inherited from parent commands

<table style="width: 100%; table-layout: fixed;">
  <colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 10px;" />
    <col span="1" />
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>

    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">--rootfs string</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td></td><td style="line-height: 130%; word-wrap: break-word;">[EXPERIMENTAL] The path to the 'real' host root filesystem.</td>
    </tr>

  </tbody>
</table>



SEE ALSO

* [kubeadm join phase](kubeadm_join_phase.md)	 - Use this command to invoke single phase of the join workflow
